Keeping the Secret of Genetic Testing
What is the genetic risk ?
Genetic risk refers more your chance of passing on a genetic disorder or disease .
People get certain diseases because of changes .
How much genetic change tell us about your chance of developing the disorder is not always clear .
If your genetic results indicate that you have a gene changes associated with an increased risk of heart disease , it does not mean that you will definitely develop heart disease .
The opposite is true .
If your genetic results show that you do not have changes associated with an increased risk of heart disease , it is still possible that you develop heart disease .
However , for some rare diseases , people who have a certain gene changes are subjected to develop the disease .
When we are diagonosed out with certain genetic disease , we are supposed to disclose the result to relatives ?
My answer is .
On the one hand , we do not want this potential danger caused firghtenning affects in our families ' later life .
When people around us know that we got certain diseases , their altitudes will be easily changed , whether caring for us too much or keeping away from us .
And both are not what we want since most of us just want to live as normal people .
Surrounded by such concerns , it is very likely that we are distracted to worry about these problems .
It is a question that will be with us during our whole life , because we will never know when the ''potential bomb' ' will explode .
On the other hand , if there are ways can help us to control or cure the disease , we can go through thses process from the scope of the whole family .
For example , if exercising is helpful for family potential diseases , we can always look for more chances for the family to exercise .
And we keep track of all family members health conditions .
At the same time , we are prepared to know when there are other members got the disease .
Here I want to share Forest'view this issue .
Although some people feel that an individual who is found to carry a dominant gene for Huntington 's disease has an ethical obligation to disclose that fact to his or her siblings , there currently is no legal requirement to do so .
In fact , require someone to communicate his or her own genetic risk to family members who are therefore also at risk is considered by many to be ethically dubious .
"
Nothing is absolutely right or wrong .
If a certain disease genetic test is very accurate and are unavoidable and necessary to get treatment and known by others , it is OK to disclose results .
Above all , life is more important than the secret .
Genetic risk does carry its consequences and should not be taken lightly within the family circle .
After all , what affects one family may or may not affect another although the family has a common genetic make up , shared by either of the parents .
In cases where an individual has gotten to know of a genetic disorder , disclosing or otherwise , to his or her relatives is solely a matter of preference within indivdial moral system .
The issue of an right to know or not to know is highly debatable although it is a genetic risk , one can not be entire sure because the genetic information could possibly result from the families of both parents - his maternal and paternal uncles , aunts or cousin .
This also means that as soon a person is made aware of his or her genetic profile , he or she concurently has a knowledge of others .
This knowledge may be relavant to them , and vice versa .
An example may serve as an illustration is breast cancer .
It is hereditary .
Do people who suffer from this disease keep it a secret of in front of their relatives ?
In retrospect , it is also one 's duty to ensure that he or she undergo periodic healthchecks in their own .
Sometimes the family structure and cultural beliefs can influence the pattern of communication .
Depending on who the genetic risk was discovered from : the son or daughter , for example , the parents who knows about this would decide who gets told and who takes the precedence in being 'allowed ' to tell .
For example , within a family , regardless of who first received genetic information , parents were seen as having the primary responsibility to pass on the information to any offspring , either adult at risk .
In addition , a woman testing positive for BRCA1 would be expected to allow her brother or sister to disclose such information to a niece or nephew rather than do it herself , although this may be further complicated by an individual 's response to risk information as they not want to know .
Hence , there were also tensions if participants felt that they could neither pass on information to relatives who needed to know ( such as nieces and nephews ) nor persuade those with authority ( the parents ) to do so .
The notion of authority has also 'vertically' .
For example , a grandmother may have more authority to pass on the information than an aunt , even when she is not at genetic risk herself while aunt is .
From a practitioner 's perspective these findings are important because if lay constructs of the family and kinship are a social construct they may not be in line with geneticists ' views of family relationships , or about which blood ( or non-blood ) relatives should be informed and by whom ; this is also likely to be dependent on the cultural and ethnic context .
Ultimately , one must bring attention to those who may benefit from such information and assisting those at risk to make considered decisions about disclosure .
Whose duty it is to inform at risk relatives or not greatly depends on the personal morals and the nature of how 'directive ' the risk is to them .
People with close blood relationship generally carry some similar genes .
In this case , if one of the family members or close relatives is found to carry genetic risk , it is better for the patient to tell their close relatives about the issue and let others know about the risk so that his/her familay members are able to perform some daily excess to prevent potential disease or they may go to the hospital and check for the correspongding flows .
In my opinion , although the annouance of carrying a genetic risk involves the issue of self privacy , it is necessary for the carrier to be obligated to tell the issue to his or her relatives in order for them to prevent potential disease .
I agree with this statement .
Focus on the negative side of annouance of genetic risk first .
Large numbers of patients with the genetic risk would want to keep it a secret as the genetic risk may indicate their high chance to carry certain diseases .
Especially for young people without marriage , if he/she is known to have some genetic risk , it may have certain chance that his/her child would carry the same disease , but not in certain .
Therefore , to keep the information as a secret to his/her future spouce would help the relationship .
Secondly , annouance the potential risk would cause the family members to be scared of this particular issue , although the factor would not be that serious , people would still fear that they would have some potential diseases in the future thus go to the hospital and additional check or take more medicine in order to prevent the disease , and this creates unnecessary costs to the family .
Furthermore , the annouance of genetic risk would affect the relationship with relatives as sometimes others may think not to stay too close to the carrier so that they have less chance to get the potential disease .
On the other hand , if the genetic risk is kept a secret , although it may benefit the carrier to a certain extent and help to keep their privacy , but it has a much larger negative impacts on the family members and relatives .
First , in the case of marriage , people should be honest and tell their spouce they may carry certain genetic risk that may affect their offspring .
It is better to let the other party know than after the baby is born and certain types of genetic disease is found .
It is better for both parties to be honest .
Secondly , genetic disease has a close relationship with the birth gene together with their daily habits .
For example , if a carrier is told that he/she has the possibility to have diabetes .
In this case , the carrier can eat less candies and chocolates to prevent intake too much sugars , and at the same time , if the carrier tell this information to the relatives , it will be useful for them to know that they may have diabetes in the future because of related genes and they can perform the same exercise to intake less sugar to prevent the disease .
Otherwise , if the other parties did not know , they may end up with having diabete in the future without any accident .
In conclusion , we can tell you the benefits of revealing the genetic risk to the carriers relatives outweigh the costs .
Therefore , it would be better for the carrier to be obligated to tell the information to the relatives , in order to let them know and prevent potential disease through daily exercise .
Among all kinds of different diseases , a large number of different kinds of disorders are caused by genetic factors .
Genetic disorders may or may not be hirataged hereditary disease and it is sometimes hard to find one have these kinds of diseases .
It is a long discussion whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives that his or her disease is caused by genes .
From the legal aspect , the answer is no but from the ethical aspect , the answer should be yes .
We ca n't make a law to push a carrier of a known genetic risk to tell their relatives about his genetic problem .
It is immoral and impractical .
Firstly , someone having what kind of disease relating to his or her privacy .
Privicy protection belong to their human rights .
If the law requires someone to tell others ' his or her privacy , especially when the one is not willing to do so .
It is against his human rights and it is against the law 's spirit .
The law 's spirit also include fairness .
What is the basic difference between genetic disorders and other disorders .
It is unfair to release a law only point to a genetic disorder .
In addition , it is impractical to make a law .
A good law should be clear and easy to execute .
However , there are many problems with the execution of asking a carrier to tell his or her ralatives the cause of his or her diseases .
Firstly , the range of relatives ?
For example , does the carrier only need to tell their direct relatives like parents and brothers and sisters or does he also need to tell relatives like his grandmother 's sister 's son 's daughter 's nephew ?
If you say only need to tell direct relatives , it would be against the fairness of the law .
Other relatives have the same possibilities to have this kind of disease .
How can a law made by government exempt a group of people from preparing to face their potetial disease ?
However , the ethical point of view .
To the carrier himself of herself , he of she should have a feeling of resposiblity to tell his or her relatives their genetic disorder .
By doing this ,they may be able to save the lives of their relatives .
It is because the carrier with bad gene not necessarily have the genetic disease , if they can have coresponding healthy lifestyle before the age that the gene 's functions become stronger .
A typical example is the genetic causes hypertension .
hypertension can be caused by genetic problems which make the carrier harder to digest the fat and salt in the blood which can cause hypertension .
People usually get this kind of hypertesion after they become adults .
However , if they already know they have a gene that may make them have more possibilities to get hypertension .
They can build a daily habit to eat less salt and fat and thus to prevent hypertension .
In a nutshell , our society ca n't push genetic problem carrier to tell his or her disease to his or her relatives but he or she should be willing to tell their relatives about their genetic problem .
By doing so , less of their beloved ones will suffer from the genetic problem .
In the age of rapid technological advancement , a lot of medical breakthroughs are made possible .
Genetic testing is made possible and available for their decision to undergo .
It is able to detect illnesses or diseases and even a child 's parentage .
However , it will become a controversial issue as it is a dilemma for a carrier of a known genetic risk to inform his or her relatives .
If the knowledge of the genetic risk were to be shared within the family or relatives , there might have a chance for them to have it in their blood , which they may do the necessary precautions to prevent .
But , if it is a terminal disease as a genetic disease , most of the relatives will be disheartened upon having the knowledge about it .
Therefore , some carriers have the opinion of keeping it a secret .
This essay will discuss whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should tell his or her relatives .
Some said that the genetic risk that is found in a person should be kept secret because it is considered a personal information which should be kept confidential .
Most they will be depressed after realising his or her .
If one has a genetic disease after the test , he or she might not wish to inform the relatives as he might end up disheartens his extended family .
Some will wish to keep it to themselves and to ensure that they will not bring any pessimistic to their family .
Furthermore , some will wish not to become a burden to anyone as seeking medical attention is costly .
Hence , some see it as being considerate to keep the genetic risk of getting the disease in confidential .
On the other hand , others may think that it will be considerate to tell their relatives because the latter will have a higher tendency of getting the same genetic risk .
Hence , they will be able to seek help from medical specialists to find a cure or to do some measures to prevent the risk of getting the disease .
Nevertheless , it depends on what kind of genetic diseases , given in the context of current medical technology .
For example , breast cancer is a genetic disease , it can be cured if it is being developed in the early stage .
Hence , the knowledge of having genetic risk , relatives of the genetic disease will do a medical check-ups , which might save them in realising it at an earlier stage .
In conclusion , it would be considerate to inform the risk of getting the same genetic disease to the relatives .
Although there might be a lot of challenges along the way in seeking medical attention , such as finance , everyone should be given the right of knowing their family 's inherented medical conditions .
However , some think that it might be better for those who are ignorant about it and will continue to lead a happy life .
In addition , some may think that even knowing about having a genetic risk of the disease , it will just adding on to their misery as there is nothing that they can do about it .
All-in-all , it depends on the individual and also the nature of the disease , but he or she should be obligated to inform the relatives if there are possibilities in curing or preventing it .
Genectic testing is a personal decision , the kowledge that there is a possiblity that one could be a carrier or not .
Those who were born into a family with a history of genetic disease should be allowed to undergo genetic testing , even though there is no risk at all .
Early pre-examination is healthy as it will cast away unwanted questions and affect the psychological thoughts of those who are affected .
For a genetic risk carrier , there should be choice given in informing his/her relatives .
There should not be forced or obligied to do so , as it may negatively and dramatically affect the emotions of the genetic risk carrier .
With regard to the choice given , there must be some rules to regulate and exercise personal freedom of decision making .
If the genetic risk carrier is a minor or a child , most likely the decision of informing the relatives should be made with the consideration of the patients parents or legal .
Such patients are emotionally volatile or they may be unaware of the consequences of such genetic disorders due to their young age .
Furthermore , the act of informing others without the consent from their parents or patients itself could harm the psychological state of the affected family .
Thus , many thought need to put on the immediate family as it could cause a stir of unwanted events from the patient or family members .
Some families may feel hurt , with regard to their family pride or reputation , having the knowledge of such genetic disorder runs in their family .
However , there is a role and a sense of responsibility to inform their relatives since it is a genetic disorder .
There might be a possibility that the genetic disorder can also affect their relatives and any other families in the same family tree .
The importance of informing relatives of a genetic disease is vital as it may help to raise awareness and prevention of the genetic disorder .
Also , this known information will help their relatives to make informed decisions and tosimilarly undergo genetic testingto find out about the outcome .
Thus , with the knowledge that such genetic disorder is benign would be beneficial to their emotinal thoughts .
And if the results turn out to be otherwise , then the family can be prepared emotionally and psychologically future outcome and aid them in making upcoming decisions .
In addition , the genetic risk carrier would be showered with moral and emotional support from their relatives if it was made known to them .
Having support from relatives are vital as they ensure that the genetic risk carrier that he/she is not alone in facing this illness and it will certainly provide a morale booster as the whole family will share a sentiment with regard to the future prospects of the genetic disorder which could be inherited by anyone in the family .
Therefore , the decision to inform relatives of such genetic disorder will be dependent on the situation and backgroung of the affected family , with the liberty of choice given to them in making the decision of informing others .
A person with the disorder , regardless of mental or physical disorders , is always easy to be aware of his or her family .
When it comes to genetic issues , it is not that simple anymore .
Genetic disorders inheritance is generation by generation , but not all of the offspring show the relevant symptoms .
Sometimes a family with potential genetic disorders risk may not be able to detect potential harm inside their bodies as none of their members reflect any observable disorder symptoms .
As a result , in the case that when one of the members happen to feel uncomfortable or abnormal , he or she should be aware that whether the disorder in his or her body is a genetic risk or not .
Afterwards , the carrier will face a serious ethical issue , which is to reveal the problem to his or her relatives or not .
If the disorder symptoms reflect on a child , the parents will be informed by medics for sure , the whole family will stay alert to their bodies ' condition .
In contrast , if the carrier is an adult , who has his own choice to choose whether to inform his or her relatives about the risk , that will be more complex .
One may think that if the carrier is a caring person who loves his family more than himself , there is no doubt that he or she will tell his family about the issue .
That is true and of course it is the obligation of a family member to protect and take care of the family .
Think of the other way , if a child of the family knows that he has the risk to become a genetic risk carrier , and the risk might inherit his children in the future , his whole life will be in a dilenma .
And of course , he or she will think of not having any children after getting married , and the same thought goes to the cousins as well .
As a result , the family generation stops by the time the adult carrier announces his issue .
In China , the older generation with traditional cultural background , will always think of having more children as well as grandchildren , to make the family liven up and stronger .
The reason is that after WOWII the population of China decreased dramatically and so the government encourages people to give more birth .
During that period , if one of the family members reflects a genetic disorder symptoms , he will feel in an ethical dilenma for sure .
The medical treatment technology during that time was not advanced enough to completely cure him .
He has to choose whether to protect his family or make their family more benefits with a potential generic risk .
And so , he would have chosen not to undergo generic disorder test and let the truth be mind forever .
This kind of ethical issue can not be judged by others because they will not understand the position and duty of the carrier of the family .
In conclusion , people should think carefully about what are the consequences of telling relatives his or her generic disorder issue .
It is an obligation for a carrier to inform his relatives , but also an obligation for a family member to liven up the family .
Regardlessly , if the disorder is rarely to be fatal , or it does not cause any inconvenience to the carrier , revealing the truth is always the right thing to do .
In my opinion , the carrier should tell his or her relatives .
One of the reasons why is because as a carrier , she or he needs the mental support to go through with this situation .
It would be hard for an individual to deal with the issue on their own .
By telling his or her family other than being a support , they could possibly help her to get alternative solutions to the problems that she is facing right now .
Other than that , I believe that a strong bond we have with our family is the biggest pillar of support to the carrier .
Furthermore , as it is a genetic problem , it will be better for the carrier to inform his or her family as other family members might experience the same thing .
By making sure that they are aware of this genetic problem , they could have a full check-up for themselves and it will be better if they could even prevent it from happening to themselves .
I find that it is important to inform especially if it is contagious , the carrier can prevent the disease from spreading out to the society .
For every action there is always pros and cons .
I believe that some of the carriers will choose not to reveal their disease to family members as they do not want to make their family members worry and feel uncomfortable or even feel ostracized by them .
Furthermore , as they could incur spending a lot of money for the treatment , the carrier might not want to be the burden in her family .
I understand the feelings of the carrier .
She or he does not want to be the source of unhappiness in thefamily .
However , we will never know whether this negative effects will happen when the carrier decide to tell his family of his or her condition .
In conclusion , personally I feel that it is better for the carrier to inform the family members about the issue .
The carrier should be honest with his or her feelings and I find that it is the right of the family members to know what is going on to his or her life .
If anything wrong happens to the carrier 's life , without informing the family members it could make a huge regret in their life if she leaves without them knowing about it .
On top of that , it is better to think about solutions for her problems with the family members as there are more heads to think about it rather than thinking about it alone and struggle on your own .
In the end , I believe that the support in terms of mental or monetary from your family could help the carrier to fight against the genetic disease .
True enough that there are lots of cancer 's patients who were given the second choice to live as a normal person as they have a strong mental support from their loved one .
In my opinion , as long as we keep our mind healthy and strong , we can fight any disease as they come to us when we are fragile and weak .
As the technology has been advancing , it has reached a stage where improvements triggers ethical dilemmas in relation to the acutual use of the technology .
Genetic testing has been made possible- it is easy to tell if one is a carrier of a known genetic risk through genetic testing .
If used for a good purpose , it can prevent unnecessary unhappiness , however , it can also make the situation worse by revealing who the carrier is , in the family .
The question given is whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives and I think that the carrier should not be obligated to do so because I believe that he or she has the right not to know .
Firstly , genetic testing is not something that is compulsory .
Of course , some people may do it to make their future slightly happier , however , the carrier , before the test , can choose not to go for the test and simply live with unknowns and accept the facts .
If he chooses to live in the uncertainty that the gene holds and willing to accept it , he could do that , and it has been something that is 'normal ' to everyone in the past as gentic testing was not possible .
It would rather be better for him or her this way .
Some people might say that it is a form of prevention of giving birth to disabled lives and make them suffer in real-life .
I personally think this is the right purpose of going through the genetic testing , so that a family who can not afford to have a disabled child do not have to give birth to their children and make the entire family suffer .
However , I believe that the carrier has the right not to obligatory to tell anyone but have a responsibility to take action to prevent any ethical dilemma .
If the results turned out something that the carrier can not accept then it would have been better not knowing the truth .
I believe that even if the carrier has the right not to know the true facts .
After realizing that he or she is tshe carrier , emotional damage would be hard to bear .
It could possibly cause a problem in a family due to the fact and create more unhappiness in the family .
Overall , I believe that it entirely depends on the carrier to share the hard facts and face it with relatives but he has no obligation to reveal still .
In fact , I strongly think that the carrier should weigh both the positive and negative consequences of taking the genetic testing and take the appropriate action to the results .
The emotional trauma that the carrier might get and the sense of guilt can be more than expected and could be a burden in mind for the rest of his life .
On the other hand , without knowing any genetic disorder and accepting the fact , the family will stay positive and work together to overcome diability .
I think the family will stay mentally healthy as it is , without having emtional stress .
Debates have been around for years , whether a carrier of a known genetic risk be obligated to inform his or her relatives .
Any individual at risk for a disorder has the right to undergo genetic testing , but whether the results should be informed to others , especially close family or relatives , is the topic that is worth discussing .
This is an issue that needs to be addressed as family-related ethical dilemma is involved .
In this essay , a few arguments will be pointed out in the support of view for any carrier of a known genetic risk to tell his or her relatives .
When we were born , we were surrounded by our family and relatives , with them welcoming us to this new world .
We were crying hard but we are not alone , it 's our family and relatives that bring us up .
Hence , they should be people be grateful for and the people we would like to share the joy .
However , in the case pertaining to any health issues or to the extent of serious disorders , it may seem no point in sharing but this involves more than just sharing of bad news .
One definitely has the right to disclose his or her health to anyone , but it 's also one 's responsibility to inform the family and close relatives .
As the case of the health issue is related to genetic risk , with keyword " genetic " which highlights the risk of passing down the disorder to the next generation .
Therefore , I would agree that it 's obligated to a carrier of a known genetic risk to tell his or her relatives to avoid any family-related ethical dilemma that could be raised in the future .
Although one may argue that it is still up to the individual to disclose such health issues or to bear it within themselves , it 's certainly helpful to share with close relatives , for a proper discussion for solutions .
By doing so , one will feel less stressed when facing such disorders risk .
Relatives will certainly be supportive and show more care of the carrier of a known genetic risk .
By informing them , the carrier is not alone in fighting the battle of such disorders risk .
On top of that , as the genetic risk may pass down to the next generation , so it will involve more than just one family .
It is therefore I would agree with the obligation of telling the relatives of both parties when one is about to get married and have a plan for giving birth .
This would prevent the rise of more family-related ethical dilemma .
There are more intangible advantages that can support the stand of informing relatives once the results are known after the test conducted .
In conclusion , in order to avoid the family-related ethical dilemma , it is best for a carrier of a known genetic risk to inform his/her relatives .
The benefits of doing so are able to outweigh its disadvantages .
More support must be provided through different means to give better direction when one is standing of such a junction whether to him/her to inform the relatives .
The decision to undergo genetic testing can only be done by the individual at risk for a disorder .
It is the common law in society .
However , it leads to a new problem " should a carrier of a known genetic risk be obligated to tell his or her relatives ?
" This issue has been discussed for a long time .
However , there is still a diversity of points of view among people .
Thus , we are going to identify the advantages and disadvantages of the issue which is " should or should not " .
Firstly , I believe most of us will agree with the sentence below : " I will be anxious about my family when he or she told me that he or she is a carrier of a known genetic risk " .
Frequently , the intention of the carriers do not want to tell their families are to continue their own life without the anxious of families .
It is obvious that there will be better for a person to be worried than many .
However , many of the carriers are not strong enough to overcome the challenge oneself .
With the families ' support , there must be more energy to fight the demon .
Demon is not easily defeated and it requires a lot of energy and psychological support .
Families give you the courage and support which you can retrieve by yourself .
That is the most essential element to overcome the challenges .
Besides that , the risk of a known genetic disease is so serious that it will not be described .
The seriousness can be more than our imagination .
Lying on the bed for the remaining life , and even die immediately , these are the consequences which we can not imagine .
Families are our dearest in our lives .
Without the concern and support , we find it hard to stay until this time .
They play an important role in our life which can not be substituted .
A known genetic risk may also affect the next generation critically .
Therefore , it is our responsibility to tell their relatives to prevent the occurrence of undesired consequences .
Generally , the clinic or hospital will not tell the carrier 's family without the agreement of the carrier .
It is the ethic of staff in hospitals to keep the secret of patients .
We can not blame them that they are liable to undesired consequences .
However , hospitals can provide councillors to advise the carrier about the action can be taken .
However , this kind of circumstances will not happen again and again .
It is a process that benefits the two parties , which is a win-win situation .
In conclusion , a carrier of a known genetic risk should be encouraged to tell their relatives about the known genetic risk .
However , there may be some special case that is hard to define .
Thus , advice from the hospital plays an important role in this .
Carrier is responsible to balance his or her own interest and the benefits of family and even society .
It is a hard decision to make but with the most appropriate way , it will create great circumstances for the carrier and their families in the future .
With the risk of being genetic disorder , many individuals have made the decision to undergo genetic testing .
With the nature that the results will be known once the tests are done , each individual that is diagnosed to be a genetic risk carrier face an ethical problem : They should warn their relatives about risking of being the same genetic risk carrier .
Or they can choose to keep silent until the carrier is diagnosed .
In view of my point , a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives , with the support of the following reasons .
First of all , from the angle of human rights , the genetic risk carrier should not be obligated to tell the truth to others .
This diagnosis can be regarded as a kind of privacy and careers .
They may do not want the truth to influence their lives or want to keep it a secret and not others know about it .
This is reasonable since the exposure of the truth of being a carrier may make them be discriminated against or sympothized by others , which is not positive factors brought to their lives .
Secondly , the relatives of the carrier can also choose to do genetic testing regardless of the dignosis of the carrier .
When people want to check whether they are genetic risk carriers , they can go and approach a doctor to consult about it .
If they do not want to think too much of it and view it as a problem , they may just ignore the possibility .
However , if a dignosed carrier is obligated to tell his or her relatives , the relatives will be forced to know their higher chance of being genetic risk carriers .
This obey their own willingness as they have to accept the truth which may make the following life miserable .
Many people may argue that setting the obligation may help more people , who are the relatives of carriers , save their lives with a larger opportunity because of the early diagnosis .
However , this is not exactly true when other factors including psychological influence , social influence , are taken into consideration .
If one such relative is told that he or she may have a higher risk of getting sick , he or she may have to be scared about the unknown life , partners , spouses and colleagues may choose to leave , and many other situations may happen , which means the relative 's life may be ruined .
On the other hand , as stated above , a person who wants to confirm and has been prepared to face the result can choose to do the genetic testing individually .
In a nutshell , the carrier of a known genetic risk should have the right to decide whether to tell their relatives or not .
This should be accepted from the point of human rights and freedom of acceptance of relatives as well as many other social factors .
Otherwise , making it an obligation will restrict the choice of carriers and bring a lot of confusion their relatives .
For a carrier of a genetic disorder to know that he or she is a carrier , it causes more difficulty rather than getting the disorder .
I agree that the carrier of a known genetic risk is obligated to tell his or her relatives .
There are four reasons why people do not have to be shy and share their problems regarding genetic disorder .
Firstly , the carrier and his family can take precautions , physically by actions to reduce the chance of it being inherited by offspring and , mentally if the action fails to prevent it being inherited .
Many symptoms such as Down Syndrome and Taylor Syndrome can be prevented from happening if the mother undergo proper medication and do n't consume harmful goods during the pregnancy period .
This information may not be known by the mother if she did n't tell her relatives regarding her .
More people ( relatives ) knew her problem , more information channel is provided .
If all efforts have been made but the children still suffer from the syndrome then the family has to accept this fact and do whatever they can to bring a good environment for their children 's growth .
This is not the parents ' fault because there is still a chance of the gene is inherited .
So , they also have to prepare mentally .
Secondly , genetic diseases cost highly for treatment and medication .
Albinism is .
People with albinism have sensitive skin and it needs regular treatment .
Unlike people with a high proportion of skin pigment , people with albinism are prone to sunburn and other skin diseases .
If they do not treat their body well , such as by using sunglasses or wearing sunscreen in outdoors , the chances are good that they will get skin problems that may also lead to cancer .
Once you suffer from cancer , the medical cost is very expensive .
To prevent the biggest problem to happen , it takes a lot of effort to take care of your body .
If the carrier did n't tell his or her relatives , it may be too late to get their support and prepare financially .
Thirdly , some diseases are not noticeable and may lead to serious health problems .
One of the disease is sickle cell trait .
Usually people are not aware if they carry the sickle cell gene and this may lead to circulatory problems such as blood blocking .
If the parents know that one of them is a carrier and disclose the information to their relatives then they can bring their children to undergo genetic testing and do not need to be shy of it because it is for the sake of their children 's health .
Fourthly , it is important for parents to give mental boost for their children with genetic disorders .
When children become teenagers , a lot of social problems may arise .
People and friends often mock of your .
A strong mental condition and convictions must be built from within and from the closest ones .
If not their family then who else who are willing to do it ?
It is not a heavy job for the family if they have prepared their mental first by disclosing information about the probability that their children may suffer from the genetic disorder .
In this modern world , technologies have been improved a lot compared with the last century .
Particularly , in the medical field , there is a great improvement in treatments for many formally incurable diseases , and genetic testing is one of the methods which were used to diagnose an individual at risk for a genetic disorder .
The medical authorities claim that only the individual who is at risk for a genetic disorder can make the decision to undergo genetic testing .
However , once a test has been conducted and the results are known , family-related ethical dilemma is born .
The question is whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should tell his or her relatives .
In my opinion , the carrier of a known genetic risk to tell their relatives about this .
This is because their relatives have the right to know about this .
As many people realize , a genetic disorder can be related to the carrier 's relatives , that is , one of the family members are at risk for a genetic disorder means that other family members also have almost the equally risk to have it , so the problem should be treated seriously by the family .
Every family member has their human right to know what is going on with them .
If they do not even know that they are at risk for a genetic disorder , how can this explain the right ?
For instance , John is informed by his doctor that he is at risk for a genetic disorder but he did not tell his siblings , James about this .
Although telling James about this is horrible to some extent , he should know what will be likely to be going on for him .
This might be beneficial for his future if he is aware of the risk of having the disorder .
The next point is that telling relatives can improve their awareness of having a similar genetic disorder , preventing certain genetic disorders to affect them .
Genetic disorders are innate , but the great improvement of medical treatment makes it possible for humans to prevent the disorder or to reduce the negative effects of the disorder on themselves .
In addition , doctors usually quote a statement , " Prevention is better than curation " ; this gives us an idea that prevent the disorder to happen has far more advantages than curing it .
Awareness of having a genetic disorder may help in diagnosing a genetic disorder for a person , and therefore , this may make the prevention of a certain disorder possible .
For example , hypertension is partially due to genetic factors , environmental factors also play an important role .
People who are aware of such disorder can prevent the disorder to happen by adapting a healthy lifestyle , including having a balanced diet and at least having exercise for 30 minutes every day .
To sum up , a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell their relatives .
This is their human right to know about that , and this may also save their lives by preventing the disorder to happen .
Together with the advancement of technology over the past decades,medical advancement has increased exponentially and further enhancements are still constantly upgrading.Empower doctors with the advancement of medical knowledge,doctors are able to diagnose and undergo genetic testing for patients to help them to prevent and take the necessary steps to protect their life.However , once a test has been conducted and the results are known,a question of disclosing the results to his or her relatives has become a challenging issue for both the patient and doctor.In my opinion,I feel a strong urge to support the obligation to inform the patient relatives .
As it is a genetic risk,the patient next-of-skin might have a high chance of carrying the risk,hence the need to inform their relatives is important so that the necessary prevention measures could be taken before unforeseen circumstances might occur.For example,if you are the only child in a family and unfortunately,you are suffering from a genetic disease that the genetic trait might be passed on to your next generation if you have a child,hence by letting your family members aware of the situation,it would lessen family stress and suffering on forcing you to settle down and have children.However , social ethical issues like discrimination and privacy are biggest concerns and potential barriers to enforce patients or doctors to disclose the information to patients relatives.It challenges the confidentiality and privacy principles.Currently , under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ( HIPAA ) in the United States,there is no legal obligation requirement to disclose the information to relatives,it is up to the patient 's wish to disclose their family members.Early disclosement to family members brings in positive reaction and prevention,as in the case of Angelina Jolie,she chose to disclose information and underwent treatment to reduce the risk of breast cancer significantly to under five percent.I can still recall her reason for disclosing her own story was that she does not want to live under the shadow of cancer .
However,there are still people against the decision of revealing private information.As in the case of Alzheimer patients,it is up to the patient 's own choice to disclose information.However,research has shown that doctors have tried to interpret who,how and who will Alzheimer 's disease be disclosed to minimise potential negative impact on family members ( DementiaToday,2012 ) .There is associations provide help to Alzheimer 's patients like Alzheimer 's Association ( Alzheimer 's Association,1980 ) .Although there are thousands of genetic risk diseases out there that might not be receiving all help and support from everyone,the needs to receive immediate understanding and support from family members is the utmost help that patients need in their difficult time .
In conclusion,the state should have passed the legal bill to measure and provide information to doctors that till which extent should a doctor opt to reveal the results to relatives members about the genetic disease and in which situation it is open to patient 's decision.In addition,the state could also encourage them to create assistance schemes to aid the necessary help to needy patients to encourage them to open up for the benefit of our own and family members.Although it may face challenges of social ethics issues,in a long term,with appropriate encouragement and aid from the government,more individuals would have a different view of acceptance and take appropriate measures to protect their own health and their loved ones .
Nowadays , the study of the genetic field has gone further and further due to the high-velocity technological advancement .
Not long ago , the human genome project , sponsored by several large multinational corporations ( MNCs ) has started .
In comparison , in the field of genetic testing , which enables people to be aware of the risk of a possible genetic disorders , as the technology has been very mature already , an even more popular question arises .
While most people agree that each individual has his own right to decide whether to undergo a genetic test or not , they have different stands in whether it is the patient 's responsibility or freedom to share the results to his or her relatives .
In my opinion , patients , which are carriers of some known genetic risk should share the truth with their family members .
Admittedly , it is a social obligation to be responsible for the life of other people .
To society , it is a duty .
Take H1N1 as an example , all the people in Singapore , including students at school , travelers at the Changi Airport , workers in the office as well as passengers on the street are forced by law to take their temperature and report the results to the relevant government authorities in charge .
To those family members who care for them , it is also a moral obligation .
How can they not tell their loved ones who they really are and get their loved ones in danger ?
The basis of a family is that everyone trust and love each other with no questions .
Without trust and love , there is no difference between a family and a bunch of strangers living together .
Hence , it is essential to tell their family members about the risk of their genetic disorder both as a social responsibility and a favor to preserve the family basis .
Moreover , telling their family members the truth is the fastest and easiest way to get their support .
Without the support of their loved ones , patients ' life is better than death .
Family members , as one the closest group of people from whom they can get comfort , is a crucial factor for them to successfully get over any possible problems as a result of genetic disorders .
A study of New York University in 2010 show that patients with family members around generally recover 2-4 days faster than those taken care of by professional nurses .
Even for those patients with terminal disease , the duration of their survival is 30 % longer due to family support .
Some people may say that telling the truth may arise some unnecessary worries and panics which will endanger the family harmony .
While every family need to go through this or that kind of troublesome situations , the troubles that the family has gone through together , the greater bond will be established between the family members as well as the greater amount of trust , love and understanding .
Hence , for a family in which every member is truly believing in each other and loving each other ,all these problems are just testaments to make them stronger .
Just as the lyrics of Kelly Clarkson , which did n't kill you make you stronger .
Being in an Asian society where genetic testing is not a common practice , I do think that it is the choice of the patient whether he or she wants to tell their relatives about his or her disease .
The courage to take genetic testing and yet to inform his relatives about the risk that they may have may result in people being judgmental while it is just a risk and not a confirmed case .
Furthermore , since it is the person 's genes that are affected , he has the right to determine with whom he wants to share the information with .
Nevertheless , while I feel that a carrier should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives about the genetic risk , I would like to suggest a person to at least share the information with her or his potential partner ( husband or wife ) since the individual 's genetic risk may affect their future children .
Many people in our society are not well informed about many genetic diseases and many of them will most likely to judge or at least changes those who have genetic diseases since they feel that they are abnormal or 'weird' .
This is because many relate genetic diseases to such as Bubble-Boy disease , autism or down-syndrome .
In those diseases , many who are affected do actually have different physical characteristics compared to those without genetic diseases .
While we do know that we should not discriminate against them based on their limitations , many people still do it with or without them realizing it .
In this particular case , we are discussing whether a person should tell his relatives about him having a RISK of a particular genetic disease .
It is normal for people to demand for a fair and similar treatment as the others and therefore it is normal for people to try to keep some of their secrets or personal issues to themselves in case some people judge them or treat them differently.Many people really love to hear what they want to hear and therefore they may just ignore the word 'risk ' and assume that the person has suffered from the disease .
To prevent this from happening , I do feel that it is up to the person whether he wants to share the information with their family since his family may either be paranoid or judge him and act differently .
Especially when it is just a risk , the option is really his since he is not an actual patients .
There may be some people who say that it is necessary to tell the family members about the risk since some of them may be affected , while I do think that this view has a point , how much you can trust your family regarding this issue may also be the case .
Maybe we can trust our immediate family members but can we really trust the other relatives ?
Furthermore , since the genetic risk or genetic disease is a very personal case , it is up to the person 's call to tell about it .
However , as I said earlier , it is better for the person to at least tell you about the potential risk to his or her future partner since his genetic risk may affect their children later .
This information needs to be at least acknowledged by the other party before they make the decision to get married and have children .
There may be possibilities when both the husband and wife are carriers and therefore they should not have any children since their children may not be able to survive even after they are born .
Or in a less extreme cases , the child may be disabled .
This piece of information does play a role in family planning matters , although no one is obliged to tell you about their genetic risk to anyone , it should be encouraged to tell their future partner .
In conclusion , whether or not the carrier wants to tell his relatives about his genetic risk , the choice is his because it is his own genes and he has the full right .
He may have different considerations other than due to the judging people or may result in making his family worry about nothing when thinking of whether he should tell his relatives , and no matter what choice he makes , we need to respect it and we have no right in saying that he must tell his relatives about it .
We all know that life is priceless and we have no right to judge a person 's death .
With improvements in technology , a new life with genetic risk can be detected .
Genetic refers to the chance of passing on the disorder or disease .
Therefore an entirely new dilemma is born : should the carrier of a known genetic risk be obligated to tell his or her relatives ?
This essay will discuss the reasons why the relatives are obligated to be informed that their children have a genetic risk .
One of the reasons that parents should be informed is that they have to decide whether they are able to raise a child with a genetic risk .
The child with genetic risk may not have the ability to work , to build up the family with others and most of the time they are not acceptable for the majority .
They may not be able to enjoy a normal person can enjoy .
This competitive world is cruel to those who are not able to survive .
Parents and relatives have to work longer than expected and endlessly to foster their child if he/she is not able to foster himself/herself .
The situation may become worse if the child has diseases like cancer and heart disease , which means that parents have another heavy baggage named medical fees .
Not only the children but also the entirely family suffered .
It is still early for parents to decide whether they can foster a new life that are not able to work and may suffer from the pain in the entire life .
The other reason that parents should know the baby they have is a carrier of genetic risk is for the nation 's good .
There are always the newspaper report that a new born baby has been abandoned in the hospital after they realized the baby have diseases that need a huge amount of money to secure .
For countries like Singapore , they are short of manpower to contribute to the nation .
However , every year the government has to spend a lot to help the disabled such as medical subsidizes and builds up special schools to educate them .
Without increasing number of disabled in a nation , the government is able to concentrate to develop in other ways , like the military and education .
As citizens of a nation , they have the responsibility to support their country in many ways .
Moreover , in the world we live today , many miscarriages conducted in the hospital every day .
It is easier for people to accept that morally .
Therefore , I believe the parents have the right to know the healthiness of their children .
Many people may support with a theory that all people have the right to enjoy the world , especially people with religions .
However , the problem is , will people really enjoy their lives if they have to stay in hospital every day and with all the needles and endless pain ?
Parents know what the best for their children , so they will make the right decision after they have be informed .
Also , a human being should improve the medical field in order to prevent the tragedy .
I think a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell their relatives .
Genetic testing is a personal choice .
One should have the full control of their information and it is their right to decide whether or not to disclose it to someone else .
As far as I am concerned , when a couple is going to have babies , they are going to run a few tests and see whether their could have some genetic diseases .
The results are disclosed to the husband and wife .
This is not the case I am talking about here .
The most obvious reason for those who argue that this opinion is that the relatives of the carrier are at high risk of carrying these diseases .
They have a right to know whether they are at risk .
Also , telling them the results can let them largely reduce the cost of multiple testing .
They can also take immediate measures to reduce the possibility of having the disease .
If a person has a disease C that might be a result of genes A .
He ran a test and know that he has the genes AA .
This means both his parents have gene A and they are both under high risk of having diseases C. They could save the cost of running two separate tests to see whether they are under high risk of having diseases C. If he runs a test and know that he has the gene Aa .
This means that one of his parents had gene A and one cost of testing could be saved .
His relatives can take measures , if the disease can some how be prevented , to stop this disease from taking their lives .
However , this can also be achieved through personal choice .
One can choose to tell their relatives if they are at risk .
Most people care about their relatives , if there is no serious consequence of telling them so , I assume most of them will tell their relatives to be careful .
One might also choose to hint or encourage their certain relatives to run a gene test if they are concerned about the negative consequences that comes across when they disclose their genetic results .
There are possible negative consequences that they might face if they disclose their genetic results to their relatives .
If a person is obliged to tell their relatives , he or she might be discriminated against by those who do not carry the gene .
He or she might even be advised not to get married and have children .
For example , if an unmarried person has genes Aa and gene aa is sufficient for a very serious disease .
After he took the test and be obliged to tell his relatives , everyone knows that he is a carrier .
So all the married couples go run a test and know they are not carriers.They might subconsiously see him as different and worry that he will find a wife who will carry the gene as well .
Third , it is hard to define relatives .
If a gene runs in the family , one of the family members test positive , who does he need to tell .
If it is a big family , he is obliged to tell everyone ?
Spouses usually have very close relationships , if people A tell his family that he has the gene , his uncle C knows and tells his wife D that he needed to run a test because his cuisine has this disease .
However wife D is not even under the risk of having the disease .
Then wife D might tell her mother , who likes to gossip on her way to the theatre .
In less than a week half of the town knows the person A has risked gene , and his family might be a genetically risked family .
Then nobody wants to marry A , his relatives .
This is the potential consequences if one does not have full control of their information , especially when the party that he is obliged to disclose his information to is a potentially large group ( relatives ) .
In conclusion , a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell their relatives .
Carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell their relatives
Nowadays , people not only pursue the comfort of their own life but also a better development of the following generations .
Since the technology of modern society has been very advanced , it becomes possible for people to make a decision to take a genetic test to be clear whether or not they carry genetic risk which can affect their next generation .
The debatable question , an ethical dilemma , is that are the people responsible for telling their relatives that they carry a known genetic risk ?
In my opinion , the responsibility of informing family and relatives is quite obvious .
And there are two main reasons .
The first one is the importance of being responsible for your self-wellness and health of your relatives and the second one is responsible for the next generations .
The awareness of your relatives and family about your genetic risk is good for your self-wellness and health of your relatives .
Because if you are carrying that genetic risk , there is a great possibility that your relatives like parents and siblings are carrying the same genetic risk as well .
The genetic risk that you carry may or may not affect your health and put you in danger .
If you have not undergone genetic testing , it 's just odd and fate of what will happen to both of you and your relatives .
However , if you have undergone and know that you are a carrier , you are responsible for your whole family .
Even though you can not eliminate the risk completely , you could at least try to be alert to avoiding getting the disease .
As for those in your family who are more likely to be affected , they can go to the hospital to do the checks regularly .
Therefore , telling the family members and relatives to get prepared for fighting the disease and even prevent to get the disease is your responsibility .
Furthermore , you are also being responsible for your future generations telling the truth that you are a carrier of a genetic risk .
If your wife is not aware of the fact and give birth to the baby , it will be possible for your child to carry the same genetic risk as well .
Being a parent , you are not responsible for you next generation , since you allowed the genetic risk to be passed on by generation and generation and being aware of it .
However , if you tell the truth to your wife and relatives , you offer a chance about whether to have children or not .
And if you still decide to have the baby , since the technology has been developed very advanced , it might be possible in the future that the application of adapting gene is perfected and widely used , you can choose to give birth to children by giving them a brighter future .
This is the responsibility of a parent .
And in my opinion , this seems to be the main purpose of undergoing the genetic testing in the first place .
In conclusion , once you have undergone genetic testing and being aware of carrying some specific genetic risk , there are responsibilities to relatives , yourself , and your following generations by telling relatives and families the truth .
To tell or not to tell
Consider the case , we decided to undergo genetic testing and have known the result of it .
We found that we actually are the genetic risk .
Then it becomes troublesome about whether we need to tell our relatives who may carry the genetic risk as well .
There are really a lot of things we need to consider .
Every choice we have made may have a huge impact on their life .
As a result , what should we do ?
Tell them or keep it secret until we die ?
Many people feel that we should tell our relatives since we really care about their health status .
For example , diabetes is a genetic disease .
Once we found it we were carrying this genetic risk , it is better for us to tell our family members because they may carry it as well .
If we tell them , they may start paying more attention to their daily habits like eating less sugar contained food and keep a good mood .
And it is important for the young people .
The earlier we tell them , a better habit they arise and better for the rest of their lives .
What 's more they may undergo genetic testing as well to see whether they are carrying it or not , which is better for them .
However , some people may argue that is why we want to interfere with their lives ?
Sometimes it becomes extremely hard for them to accept this news , especially if they are going to know that they and their descendants may have a severe diseases like blood diseases which are untreatable .
Imagine you are living like a normal person but suddenly one day your relatives come tell you that actually there are some possibilities that you may encounter some diseases in the future , what kind of feelings are you going to have ?
It may affect our daily lives and we think about it every day .
We become so anxious that we can not focus on anything .
At the same time , there will also be a chance that the genetic test result is not correct , which means they are actually wasting their lives worrying about this thing , actually we are bringing trouble to them .
Personally I feel that we still should take our responsibility to tell them the situation .
Since this will really affect their lives , what we should do is to try to make it in a positive way .
We could not let it go .
We should know that although we may affect their lives , we can still let them make the correct choice in the future .
It was only after we tell them they will start paying attention to their health .
They will consider whether to give a birth to a new baby because of this genetic problem and they will start finding ways to try to avoid their baby to carry this genetic risk as well .
They always have a choice about whether to undergo the test .
Maybe after we tell them , they will go for it and learn more about themselves .
I know it will have a huge impact on them , we should know that they are our loved ones , we need to tell them and help them .
A genetic risk carrier should be obliged to tell
Genetic testing will be conducted when an individual is at risk of some possible diseases .
Once the test is done and whether the results should be open to his or her relatives has caused social extensive controversy .
Some say it is a kind of invasion of privacy for the carrier and should be protected .
They have the right not to tell anyone .
However , in my opinion , it is the obligation of a carrier of a known genetic risk to tell their relatives about their actual situation .
This essay will illustrate the two aspects .
First of all , it can be an for the family members of the patient and let them be aware of the possible diseases that they may also have .
As we all know , the genetic risk carriers are likely to pass the genetics to their family members .
Once one person in the family is found to be carrying risky genetic , other members in his family may also have the risk of disease .
Some diseases may not show symptoms until the carrier is old enough .
Therefore , telling about the situation may avoid a lot of trouble in this way and save much time for proper treatment .
Sometimes life may even be saved if they are told early and conduct timely treatment .
So for consideration the other family members and relatives should be informed .
Secondly , it can prevent genetic disease passed on to the next generation when they intend to have babies .
They should let their spouses know about their situation before marriage .
They need to ask for a doctor 's advice before they plan to have a baby .
Some genetic gene will pass only to boys than girls , some are in contrast .
If the carrier refuses to tell the truth to his or her spouse , another life may have risk of inheriting the genetic disease .
I noticed a real story in a newspaper years ago .
A couple in China have a son of 5 years .
Their son unfortunately fell ill and he was diagnoses a kind of genetic disease which is very serious .
They were told that the wife 's family was carrying the polygenetic disorder and can pass only to boys than girls .
Therefore , their son had inherited the genetic disease .
However , the wife actually had already known the polygenetic disorder before the marriage and she did not tell her husband .
The son had died after one year 's and the couple got divorced later after that .
If the wife had not hind the truth and asked for a doctor 's advice before they have a baby , the tragic would not happen .
In a nutshell , a carrier of a known genetic risk has the responsibility to tell their relatives .
On the one hand , it can tell members of the carrier 's family possible diseases they may have and can perform treatment in time if possible .
On the other hand , it may pass the disease to the next generation if the carrier hide the truth .
Nowadays , with the advancement of technology , it is easy to do genetic testing .
We can not deny that the genetic testing really helps people a lot when they face the disorder .
However , I thought that the genetic information is one person 's personal privacy which should be protected by law .
Therefore , I thought a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives .
There are three reasons as follows .
Firstly , the information concerning the genetic is something personally , which is a private like people 's bank card key .
Other people should not be told without the person 's permission even though they are his family or relatives .
The government should give the law to protect this kind of privacy .
Once people 's genetic information is to tell other people .
They may know the person 's potential disability disease or other bad things naturally .
They may set a bias this person even abandon his or her .
People do not have the ability to choose their genes , they should not be thought badly because of bad genes .
So I think whatever the genetic is or whether the gene is match with their parents , it should not be told to anyone even his family or relatives .
Secondly , the carrier of a known genetic risk may destroy the peace of a family even broken the relation between children with adults .
Once his family or relatives know that the person does not have a relationship with them .
However happy they were before , there will be some barrier appears which will truly destroy the family gradually .
The relationship between parents and their children should not be tested only in the genetic way ; it is something much deeper and tighter .
The parents give knowledge and love to the children , while they feel happy with the accompany of the children .
The children rely on their parents to live .
When they grow up , they take care of their old parents and thank you for the dedication .
The relationship between parents and children is something about the love and dedication .
Everyone does not want to see the scene of the broken families due to the carrier of a known genetic risk .
Therefore , I think a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his family or relatives without the person 's permission .
Finally , the technology of testing the gene is not very mature now .
There also exists some probability of wrong testing .
If the wrong testing was not found by the doctor , the family and the children may be sad and have a struggle life for their whole life .
Therefore I think a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives .
Therefore , considering the people 's privacy and the existence of wrong testing , for the peace of the family , I support that a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives without the person 's permission .
A Carrier of a Known Genetic Risk Should be Obligated to Tell His or Her Relatives
More and more illnesses are discovered to be related to some genes the development of medical technology .
People will know about whether they carry a disease on their genes after they have taken the test .
If there is no problem , that would be wonderful .
However , not everybody is so lucky that they can make sure they do not carry any diseases genes .
Therefore , once people find they carried the disease genes , they should be responsible to tell their relatives , at least their family members .
It may be awkward and embarrassing for a person to tell his relatives that he or she is a carrier of a known genetic risk .
But they are all from one family and own the same forefather , then of course they own the same gene in some parts .
Therefore there is nothing to be shy about or be afraid of .
If the person tell their relatives that he or she carries a disease gene , his or her relatives can go to the hospital to check whether they also get a disease gene .
Then the relatives can prepare themselves to prevent the disease to occur .
Also they can prevent the disease go to their offspring .
If the relatives carry that disease genes , they can share the experience with him or her and give some help , they will also teach them how to communicate with others about this issue .
If he or her not get married , he or she must tell their partner that he carries the disease gene .
Then they can have a healthy baby with the help of doctors .
Or else , if he holds back the genetic risk , they may have an unhealthy baby and may cause the death of the baby or end of their marriage .
It is a story I watched on TV .
A couple did not have a child after their marriage for a long time , their parents were anxious about that and asked them to go to the hospital to check what was the problem .
After came back from the hospital , the man told his parents that the problem was that he carried a disease gene so that they can not have a baby in their life .
The woman did not know the test result , she overheard the talk and decided to divorce with her husband .
After got a divorce certificate , the man showed her the test report ; they wrote that the woman carried the disease gene instead of the man .
At that time , the women know how much her husband loved her but she ruined her happiness .
Tears showed nothing .
People can not avoid carrying the disease genes , they are born with .
However , they can prevent the disease genes are inhered to their children .
By telling his relatives that they may have a risk of carrying the disease gene can make their family members bond closely , also many risks and conflicts can be avoided .
Genetic testing has become a useful way to predict and protect individuals at risk for a disorder .
However , there has risen a family-related ethical dilemma if it is right to tell the carrier 's family once the test has been conducted and the results are known .
I am more inclined to believe that his or her relatives have the right to know the results .
The answer is simply that everyone , especially our family , has the right to know the truth .
Though it is said that genetic testing involves emotional and social risks due to the test results , while the potential negative impacts of the risk still exists , the consequences will be significant if other members of his family do not know .
Then they are unable to have a suitable method to protect themselves and emotional preparation .
Taking Angeline Jolie , for example , she is famous but she still reveal the truth about her genetic testing to the development of her breast cancer risk .
Everything is not that bad if you know how to look on the bright side with hope .
People may feel angry , depressed , or even guilty about their results .
In some cases , a carrier can suffer tension within the family because the result is also related to others ' risk somehow .
However , I believe it is a common reaction to this situation .
In addition , though it can be possible in some cases that he or she and the family can undergo specific discrimination in employment and their social life , how people can face more dramatic tragedy such as illness or death if they can not even overcome this harsh situation .
Life is hard but people can not blame it being unfair .
It is just because you do not become strong enough to overcome the hard time .
Furthermore , living with a secret is not a good sensation , especially if the situation of other relatives become worse , you should feel guilty and depressed .
Moreover , the truth can not be hidden forever but when it is revealed , more shocked and upset it will be .
As a result , it is in the interests of the carriers and their relatives , revealing the genetic testing result is needed .
Last but not least , though genetic testing is a personal matter , telling the result to your family can improve and develop the understanding and sympathy of each other as well as promoting awareness of taking care of everyone 's health .
It plays an important role in the possibility that relatives can overcome the discrimination of society and anxiety about the risks .
To put it in a nutshell , I believe that people should have the obligation to tell their relatives about the genetic testing result for the good of their health .
It can be very difficult for them but necessary for the carriers and their families .
In addition , emotional preparation and the way you explain your genetic condition is also important so that you can convey correct information to your family and relatives and if necessary to guide them if he/she wishes to conduct a similar genetic testing .
The Impact Of Social Media
Social media has been playing a vital role in our lives today .
It is almost impossible for us to keep far from it .
I started invoving on Facebook one years ago,when I just arrived Singapore .
And now I have got over 500 friends on Facebook and buried myself with hundreds of seeds every day .
We know each other's ' status , changes and so on through the media .
For example , if we change our contact numbers , we will not send SMS to each of the individual any longer .
Instead , we will post the seed and tag our friends to inform this kind of changments .
And if you are not on it , you will get lost .
In certain areas , social media has brought us quite a lot of convenience .
It is becoming even more convenient than talking on the phone since it is free .
We discussed everything we like and we have more personal space.Our friends also got more access to know what we are doing and what we like .
And also , we get a chance to talk to the public people like popular stars and know their life better .
In China , a lot of government organizations have open blogs to communicate with people , like firefighters , police stations and so on .
Social media allows them to explain to or inform people what is going on .
And actually lots of rescue jobs done with the help of social media like looking for people to get lost and so on .
With more convenient and humanian communication , the relationship between the government and people have largely improved .
What 's more , different cultures can be shown to us through social media .
We can know more news and culture through socia media .
From this scope , social media have shorten our distance .
However , we get less chance and less importance to talk face to face in social media is so convenient , advanced and interesting .
And even we gather together more people find themselves has less topics to talk than before and choose to dig from their social media again .
When we are far away , social media make it as we are in front of each other ; sometimes when we are in each other's ' side , we seem to be further than far away .
This kind of feeling makes people 's relationships not stable , secure and reliable than before .
Besides , there are more people shwing their pictures of yummy food or travel experience .
To some extent , this makes our life more luxury and blundering .
For myself , I am a long time to some places after I saw the beautiful pictures taken by my firneds .
Sometimes I even canoot sleep well because of the excitement .
Social media makes our life patten so fast and left us less time to think about our lives .
Social media is becoming more important and we need to think more to make it serve us better and better .
Interpersonal skills , like any other skills required .
Besides , these skills require time to develop and adapted .
The burgeoning of social media definitely has its stint ; but in all good things , it is better to have them in moderation .
Convenience and efficiency are two very important use of social media .
While millions of users are connected at any one time , any information can be readily available at their perusal .
This improves the connectivity between users .
For example , one is able to send notifications and other information we use to have them in hardcopy previously , the web and the process takes seconds .
The receipent,will then receive the information almost immediately depending on the quality of the network .
This covenience can be percieved as almost real-time .
Next , communication are greatly improved .
In the past , vast communication are done by one of the many a telegram , snail mail and poor-quality voice calls .
With the welcoming of applications such as Skype and Facetime , any individual can phase of most , of the olden days communication methods .
Aside from hearing the voice , the webcamera could also be affixed to emulate a 'real ' interaction with expressions and gestures .
Communication would have taken a different turn without easily available social media .
However , it is good practice not to intesively use social media all the time .
Intimate interaction well the lack of social media interactions , particularly the touch .
Having to meet and interact for talks allow them to be closer to the recepient .
It involves a level of dynamic interaction which utlises the motor , thinking and verbal cortex of the mind to coordinate .
Unlike the use of social media , most of the communication is done with thinking and typing .
As a result , one does not train the necessarily part of the skills required for a proper interpersonal relations .
It is also the incorrect to the fault social media alone for the lack of interpersonal skills .
Howard Garner studied the effect of multiple intelligences amongst people and stated that interpersonal intelligence is a form of skills on their own - some have it , some do not .
Howard Garner mentioned that the different intelligences can be charted , in accordance with utilising tests , and ranks .
Fundamentally , those who scored lower ranking for interpersonal skills are more likely to stumble when the skill is needed .
Though social media need not necessarily bad , it must be used accordingly - for work , family , friends .
The types of use must also be taken note of - informing , interacting , discussion and others .
The space of separation between the parties must also be looked at .
For people who live very far from one another , the intensive use of social media is justified .
For those who live within the community should at least meet up , and not use social media as the primary source of communication with each other .
And at the same time , improve the interpersonal skills , dynamic practice betwwen individuals and real-time presence .
The inclusion of intimate presence and relatives touch could also have a better rapport between those interacting .
Recently , the rise of social media helped people to have more closer connection with each other , it is more convenient and cheaper way to have online contact compared with face-to-face meetings .
In my opinion , social media web sites such as Twitter and Facebook will not affect the chance for people to have face-to-face contact and thus negatively affect interpersonal skills .
On the other hand , it may even increase the chance of having face-to-face contact among people .
First , social media networks have a lot of customer base , it helps to link people from different parts of the world .
In the days without the social networks , people may not have the chance to know others from different countries or the ones they never met before .
Their number of people that they know may only limited to the people they meet in daily life like classmates and working partners .
Therefore , social networks brings more and more connections between people and they may have a chance to chat with people they have never known before , and this helps to develop the interpersonal skills as well .
Secondly , although social network takes time for people to chat online but not face to face , they may still decide the time online to meet others face to face in daily life .
In this case , the social network helps people to increase the frequency of talk .
For example , social network does not exist , business people need to meet each other face to face and it is the other time , even sometimes with business that is not so important , it still takes a lot of time on travel , which is a wastage .
However , social network helps people to meet and chat much easier , they can even use video chatting and create a group chat to chat with multiple parties at the same time .
Nowadays , even some companies conduct online video interview with the applicants as it saves time and cost .
The social network may also create some negative impacts on people .
The largest negative impact is that due to the online network , some people start to use and rely on the internet every minute .
They take too much time for using online social network and thus do not have time to have their daily meeting with people in their real life .
It not only affects the interpersonal skills but also bad for people 's health if the ones spend too much time on the social media .
Secondly , social network may leak certain personal information to the public , as the cyber environment is not perfect and not safe , people may not be able to protect their privacy online effectively and sometimes , some people may use other personal information to deceive .
In conclusion , although the unsafe online environment , spend too much time on the Internet may be the potential negative factors in using online social networks .
It provides people with more convenient contact the environment and improve the frequency of meeting with each other .
It also helps people to develop their interpersonal skills through online chat .
Overall , there are more benefits than costs .
The wolrd is incresingly becoming flat with all kinds of social network websites such as facebook and twitter .
We can even know what a friend who leave thousands of miles away to eat for lunch though these kinds of social media .
From some points of view , social really have a lot of advantages in let us communicate with friends cheaper and more conveniently .
However , its disadvantages also can not be ingnored when you cosider it as a platform to show off and a stage for cyber criminals .
Social network sites provides us a lot of convenience .
Without hanging out with friends or talking with friends by phone , we can know his of her latest news by scanning the webpage .
It can help us learn more about each other .
It can make people become closer .
For example , if you find one of your friend 's favourite singer is Justin Biber through facebook , you can give him or her Justin Biber 's new album or concert tickets as a birthday gift .
It would be really sweet and you two will surely become closer .
In addition , social network site can help you keep in touch with friends who live very far away .
I met some canadian friends in Egypt .
Without facebook , we may have lost contact .
However , thanks to facebook , I can still keep in touch with them and I know what they are doing recently as we live close to each other .
The disadvantages of social network media are undeniable .
Research shows that people will unconsciously hide his or her real thought when he or her say or post something that will be exposed to the public .
It means that one can not know another 's real thoughts and personalities by reading things that he or she put on social network media .
It will make them quite upset when they communicate in real life .
In addition , with all those " nice " guys around on the social network website , one may neglect the people surrounding him or her but just communicate with friends on facebook .
It is a common scene that two people sitting next to each other , seldom talk to each other but just look at their cellphone .
This kind of behaviour is not good for people 's psychological health according to research .
The cyber communication is quite different to face-to-face communication and people who depend on cyber communication too much will not get used to the real life communication .
In addition , cyber relationship not always work in real life .
With no close relationship in real life but only close cyber friends , one is more possibly feel lonely because the physiological needs of human beings is to feel the bond with others in our five senses .
With the willing people to become the best among others , social network site now become a place to show off .
Some people will to post their expensive thing or overseas places of interest they have been on the social network and get a feeling of satisfaction by doing so .
It is the mental unhealthy and it may influence people , especially teenagers to become material .
The last but not least , all kinds of personal information on one 's social network page , it is covenient for criminals to make use of this information to commit a crime .
Above all , social network site is like a two-sided knife and people can only take advantage of it by avoiding the possible disadvantages of it such as put less personal information on his or her facebook page .
The modes of communication have been changing over the years , from letter writing to social networking .
This phenomenon is caused by rapidly changing technology , has made communication to be faster than ever before .
Today , social media sites , such as Facebook and Twitter , are relatively common in contemporary society ; and , people can communicate with each other , online or offline , on these social networking platforms .
They can even make new friends over a similar interest in these platforms , which will be able to connect almost everyone closely in many parts of the world .
However , critics may argue that the existence of social media sites have reduced physical human interactions among people as they will prefer sitting in front of a computer to going out and meeting new friends .
This essay will discuss both the benefits and down sides of using social media in contemporary society .
Nowadays , the media are able to disseminate information faster than any other media .
There are about 50 % of the people who have learnt about breaking news from the social media .
This is due to people spending comparatively more time on social networking than time on reading newpapers .
Furthermore , with the current technology , smartphones are able to get access to social media sites which have made it easier for consumers to use .
Hence , social media has benefited the masses by equipping them with a powerful tool to disseminate information almost immediate to the people around them .
However , critics may argue that not all information or news disseminated are reliable .
There might be false information or hoaxes spread around on social media .
For example , in 2012 , there were false rumors of fire , shootouts , and caravans of gunmen in a Mexico City suburb which had spread through Twitter and Facebook .
This caused panic among the people who have flooded the local police department with numerous phone calls , and this has resulted in temporarily closed of schools .
The spread of false information can be a potential psychological threat to everyone , given that social media can disseminate information in a realtively fast speed .
Nevertheless , there are cyber police who roam around the social networking platforms to prevent these hoaxes spread around .
But , there will still be unreliable sources spreading false information on social media sites despite high security to control almost every social networking .
Social media will be able to improve relationships and make new friends , provided that there is mutual trust and mutual understanding between both parties .
Many of the teenagers today claim that they are able to keep in touch with their friends through social media , regardless of their location .
In the past , people used to writing letters to their friends and it will take a relatively long time to send a letter over .
Therefore , with the help of technology , people are able to catch up wth each other conveniently .
Furthermore , it will be easier to make new friends find people who have similar interests or hobbies .
However , in order for people to maintain their relationships as well as making new friends , it requires mutual trust and understanding between both parties .
It might not be accurate to judge the other party 's feelings over social media as one may cover up their emotions on social media .
In addition , there are also chances for people to miscommunicate with each other as they can not sense the tone of the other party over social media platforms .
This will result in unnecessary conflicts between the two parties the miscommunication .
But , if there is trust and mutual understand on social media , it would be ideal for people to improve relationships and make new friends .
In conclusion , social media in contemporary society is able to help them improve relationships and make new friends , as well as , disseminate information efficiently to the masses .
However , there are risks of false information , the chances of miscommunication .
Nevertheless , the advantages of social media will benefit the masses if the negative aspects of it can be carefully taken care of .
All-in-all , social media is the product of rapid technological advancement and there are more to come in the future .
Advantages : Social media sites have greatly ease long distance communication and interaction due to its accessibility and convenience .
With a globalised and interconnected world today , Twitter and Facebook are now the mainstream platform for social interaction .
With just a touch away from any meida/electronic devices , one can easily interact and communicate with their friends without much hassle .
Thus , long distance relationship or friendship can maintain and keep in touch with your circle of friends has been made much easier .
With the sharing of personal photos , posting of status of one 's personal feelings or experience and able to reply to the posts allowed human interaction to engage and expand with ease .
Introverts or those who are shy to communicate with their friends are now able to do so in the form of words in social media platform , .
Thus , socialisation can occur seamlessly and effectively with the utilisation of such social media platforms.Meet-ups and appointments are no longer a barrier for humans to contact and communicate with one another , making human interaction possible at one 's own convenience .
The society will adapt to such a phenomenon as physical interaction are transformed into cyber communication .
With the frequent use and reliance of the media and the Internet , a society that socialises through the cyber will be more advanced and adapted to the highly connected world .
This will greatly help society to progress rapidly .
Disadvantages : One of the main concerns of using the social media platform , to communicate is credibility .
The certainty of what is being shared or expressed could not be proven physically as the media limits this physical interaction , except when using a webcam to chat .
We can not be certain for sure the reliabilty or truth of some posts or information we receive through the Inetrnet .
We may in actual fact communicating with a hoax Facebook acccount of a cyber friend , which we assume to be real but in reality , it is a fake account .
Photos and information retrieved from the profile page may be manufactured to suit certain personal agenda .
Thus , the lack of face-to-face human contact through social media restricts actual communication which can be stimulated through the media .
Although emocons can be used to show certain emotions , this differs from the real authentic emotions of your friends when you observed them through their body language and their facial expression .
The danger of such media socialisation is the uncertainty of the communication due to the lack of physical interaction .
Furthermore , this lack of physical interaction affects human interpersonal behaviour since communication is made through social media instead of meet-ups .
This lowers the experience of the human ability to interact with one another which can adversely shape one 's behaviour .
The lack of exposure to real life interaction with humans with not create confidence and skills needed for them to interact seamlessly and effectively with others .
Therefore , an effective and efficient society , there is a need to have a balance of both social media interaction and face-to-face human interaction within its people .
Nowadays , people can use their phones to read the news and everyone can be the first witness of what is happening in the world .
People use Twitter to follow the artiste or celebrity they love and Facebook to see what their friends ' recent activity .
Nevertheless , they can still use the phone to normal call and message to contact .
Not only the phone did the jobs for them , but also devices like personal computers , laptops , tablet , and many other devices which are able to connect to the Internet .
It is obvious to see that the Internet saves people 's time and connect people globally .
Several arguments have been made regarding the media actually have some inevitable disadvantages for people .
People can only use electical devices to access the Internet .
Whenever they need to use social media , they have to use a phone or internet .
Generally people need their eyes to look at the display screen of their phone or computer and fingers to manipulate the corresponding device .
As a result , they will lose eyes to contact and hands to express their feelings people nearby them , which means they have lost the tools they need for face-to-face contact communicating .
This can easily be seen in restaurants or cafes .
A family of four having dinner in a restaurant without any chatting , because their holding and looking at their display screen with one hand when the other hand is holding a fork .
A group of friends having high tea in the caf  without chatting as well , because they do not know what to talk but pressing on their display screen .
The children nowadays do not know what the neighbourhood games and who is staying beside them , all they know is pressing icons on the screens .
These are some concrete examples of how socia media reduces face-to-face human contact .
When people get used to using socia media to contact other people , what will happen is that their interpersonal communication skills will degrade and lost .
Firstly , they have lost the courage to strangers , not even the courage to talk .
Also , they will not have enough experience to communicate with people in the face and not be trained in their conversation skills .
As a result , social media helps them do their jobs but indirectly affects their interpersonal skills .
Social media does have some other advantages beside their general benefits to human beings .
First of all , people to save money by using the Internet to contact other people and reading news .
A father may be able to make a call to his daughter who is in another country via socia media software instead of making international call which costs a lot to normal salary family .
He can talk to her daughter face-to-face using video call via the Internet .
Secondly , people make friends all over the world and be able to update their friends his recent activity easily .
A guy who is going to travel for months can easily tell all his friends about his activities .
When one of his friends who are not aware of this has failed to contact him via telephone calls , he might be able to get his whereabouts using social media .
These are the advantages that save work most of the time .
In conclusion , socia media benefit people in several ways but at the same time harm people .
People should avoid the misuse of socia media and use it in the proper way .
With the aid of social media , people bonds globally , information flows rapidly , and humans live happily .
All of us live in the technology realm society .
Have you ever wondered why we use these tools to connect us with other people ?
It started withthe invention of technology has evolved tremendously over the past few decades .
In the past , we travel by ship and now we can use airplanes to do so .
In the past , it took a few days to receive a message as we need to post our letter and now , we can use e-mail which stands for electronic messages to send messages to our friends or even use our mobile phones to send our messages .
From the example that I mentioned earlier we can see that distance between us and our loved ones are getting further apart .
This is because of the ease of technology such as airplanes , some of our friends might be going overseas to continue their studies or even you are away from your family to pursue your studies or even careers in life .
Thus , this makes Twitter and Facebook is one of the media that we need .
Nevertheless,everything in life has positive and negative effects .
This is applicable to the social media sites .
The next two paragraphs will be discussing the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our society .
With the help of social media tools , we can stay in contact and keep ourselves up to date with our family and friends even though we are away from them .
Social media sites such as Facebook have allow us to share our pictures or even chat online with our parents while we are overseas .
This approach help the parents to communicate with their children and know what kind of activities that their children have when they are overseas .
The social media is beneficial as it connect you and your loved one even though you are separated by distance .
It might not be able to replace the joy that you have when you are with your family and it could help to reduce the sadness of being away from your family .
As I mentioned in the beginning , there are also disadvantages of social media tools .
One of them is to reduce the level of concentration , especially among the young .
This is because it is part of everyone 's habit to check their facebook 's page as their friends will post something new every second .
Thus , you can see that some students could browse facebook while attending lectures .
This means that students are not concetrating when they are supposed to do so .
As a result , it can affect their lives and studies .
This will then could lead to stress as the students are not able to cope with their studies because they were distracted .
In my opinion , every individual has to take responsibility for their own lives by making the right decision .
There are advantages and disadvantages in using social media sites , in this case striking balance between social media and life is the most important thing to do .
Nowadays , the use of social media platforms is a commonplace in our lives .
In an increasingly globalised world , the platforms even enhance and compliccates the links between indivduals in the world .
Thanks to them , people can get to know one another online , without having to travel to meet up for business purposes for companies or personal reasons .
However , it is also bringing some social changes whereby such virtual worlds are overtaking the real-life world , resulting in some negative impacts in individuaul 's daily lives and therefore becoming a large problem in societies as a whole .
As people spend more and more time on such social media sites , the importance of face-to-face human contact has decreased .
As people feel more confident online because they do not have to face in real-life on the spot , they feel more comfortable and thus prefer communicating online .
This results in a lack of interpersonal skills in individual , especially young students as they always have the option to turn back to real-life and go online .
This is a huge problem when they have no choice but to have to face things in real life .
As they are so used to having an online avatar , they may lose their self-identity in real life and may not realise how to interact people in real-life .
Another problem with social media is that , the benefits of investing such enormous time and energy is not relfected as something positive to users .
The reason why it is so addictive is , that the more people get into the social media , they seek attention from their friends .
However , such sparks of sudden attention is extremely short-termed and gone eaily thus does not add any value or meaning to the user 's life .
Also , according to research , it has been proven that users feel more sad after using the Facebook and this is because users unknowingly compare their lives with other people 's lives .
But seriously , most people only post the happiest moments in their lives .
Social media definitely has some other strong benefits that the users stay is the links among the people .
Indeed , I myself use Facebook because of the friends ' contacts that I want to keep .
However , the friendship of such a virtual world is so superficial which is not so relevant to the real-life .
Also , as numerous profit-driven companies realize the huge human traffic on such social media sites , they make it a pond with fish the customers by uploading many advertisements .
Furthermore , this also possibly triggers the privacy issues as Facebook allows some other profit-driven companies to have access to information on the users .
As this happens , users are more pron to any possible frauds .
Social media sites are at their peak at the moment , however , I believe that when people realize that such sites are not to make them better people in real-life , they will not be indulged in it as much as they are now .
The users , soon , will realise that they do not need such social media sites to keep in contact with their friends because , if they really need somebody , they will reach the friends no matter what .
We think we are all connected through all sorts of social media , but do we really get connected and falling apart ?
Social media sites like Facebook and Twitter are born with the intention of connecting people , from around the world .
The idea seems great , nowadays most people even the older generation will have at least one social media platform , like Facebook .
The parents are now the " friends " of their children , and they can now " follow " their children more closely and in real time .
People post their random thoughts or daily activities via Twitter and post different kinds of photos on Facebook frequently , to be connected with their so-called friends .
However , as we then tend to spend too much time on this and have significantly reduced in face-to-face human contact , which eventually affects their interpersonal skills .
First and foremost , I would like to share the advantages of using such social media in my daily life .
As a student , I tend to meet lots of people from different backgrounds and with different settings .
We may meet only once we exchange our contact numbers as well as facebook account in order to keep in touch .
Unlike just keeping contact numbers that we may not even call , social media such as facebook is a great way for friends from different fields or even from different parts of the world to be connected .
Within click , we can check on a friend 's profile and read on for his/her updates .
On the other hand , we can update our profile by posting on the wall and our friends could read up on the newsfeed .
This allows friends who may not have the time for meeting up to still connected in a way .
Not only that , new friends can be easily met through such online platforms .
Indeed , our social circle is indeed expanding .
Nonetheless , what seems to make us connected can be the cause that falls on us apart .
The obvious disadvantage of using social media is that the time reduction of face-to-face contact .
This eventually leads to poor interpersonal skills that inhibit the growth of our real social circle .
For example , we tend to send a birthday wish when Facebook promts us " Today is someone 's birthday .
In fact , we have just forgotten our friend 's birthday .
We used to send wishes cards during the festive season , like Chinese New Year , and we feel so good to write one and of course to receive one with stamps .
Gone are the time , and now we do mass sending and the receiver may feel less meaning in online wishes .
As time passed , we may have more " friends " on the list , but the meaning of friends needs to be redefined .
In a nutshell , every sword has two edges .
The users of every social media sites need to strike a balance between the real world versus virtual .
We should maximize the benefits of such platforms but be careful of its impact on the actual life that we have .
Ultimately , the best way to enhance interpersonal skills are still through face-to-face meetings but social media sites are only tools to enhance it .
Nowadays , social media sites are commonly used in society .
I believe 80 percent of people who play social media sites .
These sites play the role of connecting people around the world .
It consists of the functions of connecting , sharing , interacting and advertising .
However , there are also some disadvantages occur due to the media which are concerned in the society .
Therefore , this article is written to explain the pros and cons of using social media in our daily life .
First , the function of social media sites that connect people , everyone is able to interact and communicate with friends and family , or even strangers without any time and place constraints .
Through the social media sites , we can chat with our friends who stay in Europe and New Zealand .
There are over a thousand miles between Singapore and these two countries .
However , we are able to chat with our friends without travelling to countries .
It saves a lot of money and time as well as strengthen our relationship although we stayed at different places around the world .
Besides that , companies can also use the convenience of social media sites , such as Facebook chat or Skype to facilitate the meeting with the parties of projects from around the world .
Substantial cost is saved without tiring travel from one point to another point .
With the huge amount of cost savings , this capital can be utilized in other sectors which benefits the company more and boost the company 's profits .
However , there are two sides of the issue .
Some scholars argue that the use of social media reduces the face-to-face connection between human .
Since ancient times , humans interact with others face by face .
Without the facial impression , it is easier to misunderstand the intention of the speakers .
That is why facial impression is one of the most important elements in learning .
In addition , " social media sites will affect writing skills " , that is the point of view of society .
Based on the statistics report , the more of the writing skills will be reduced when the more time used in social media sites .
I believe most of us have had the experience of suddenly forget how to write a word that we should know .
The auto correction software is so effective when using electronic device until we did not realize the importance of writing .
Writing is an essential skill of people who express their feelings and opinions .
'Privacy ' , this is the word that common in these few decades .
Humans have their own rights and privacy .
I believe that most of us agree that these terms .
However , there is news about the social media sites leaks users ' information to companies with cash reimbursement .
Everything we type in social media sites is recorded in the server and then transfer to the companies for spying and advertising .
Although it looks like no laws and it is your own space to speak and do anything you want , you are actually wrong .
You are not only controlled by the government laws and spied upon by the government .
In conclusion , everything has two sides of the story .
It is our responsibility to identify the advantages and disadvantages of social media sites .
To utilize technology well , we should do our effort to balance the pros and cons but also lengthen the pros and shorten the disadvantages .
Thus , the new technology will be able to bring a prosperous future for our and the next generation .
The wide spread of advanced technology and social media sites are becoming more and more popular .
Getting connected with social media such as facebook and twitter has become a main trend as well as the daily work nowadays .
With this situation , both the advantages and disadvantages of using social media apply to our daily life .
On one hand , it is obvioualy that many advantages have brought to our lives .
Social media provides people with the opportunity to get in contact with each other all the time and everywhere .
Whether we are at home or at school , at work or on a holiday , we are able to communicate and interact with our friends .
Even when people are thousands of miles apart , social media makes it possible to have communication by keep writing comments .
When our phones are accidentally done , we can also use the media to contact our friends .
Some people who try to talk in public can also actively take part in the group chatting via social media .
In addition , we can make more friends by such interactions when our friends also bring their friends .
Therefore , the popularity of social media sites have made it more convenient for people to update friends ' status and contact with friends more frequently .
On the other hand , we need to rethink about the influences caused by the media .
There are still many disadvantages to using social media .
Firstly , interpersonal skills may be affected by the reduction in face-to-face human contact .
While social media brings convenience to people's life , people are more and more willing to use social media for chatting instead of face-to-face chatting , which has a time and place requirements .
People who are not good at public chatting may be reluctant to talk to people , and their interpersonal skills can never be improved in this situation .
Secondly , people 's over-addition may avoidably , to some degree , exacerbated social alienation , and this kind of alienation caused some social media users to suffer from the over-dependence of virtual social networking .
More and more networking is transferred to the Internet from real life .
This is a potential danger for teenagers who are growing up with social changes to get hurt .
Thirdly , a lot of updating of luxury living standards as well as other show-off situations may make people 's daily life more and more grandiloquent , which is not an accurate social growing trend .
Lastly , it is easy for people to waste a lot of time using social media .
Again , there is a trend for them to suffer from social media addition and their study and work may be greatly affected .
Since we can see both advantages and disadvantages of using social media , and we can not deny the huge benefits that have been brought to us , the main trend of using social media may be still lasting for a long time .
Therefore , every time we use social media , we should take both sides into consideration and try to avoid be affected by the disadvantages .
Only by absorbing the essence and being discarded the dregs can we make better use of social media .
In sophisticated era like these days , experts keep producing inventions that are meant to make life easier .
Geographical and transportation borders are not a problem anymore because communication and information technologies have been improved continuously .
Telephone may be perceived as a big innovation created ever when the first time Graham Bell introduced .
However , since the Internet was known , the telephone started to give way to social media sites .
Many benefits are given to the users .
Let us take an example from Facebook and Twitter , two of the most famous social media sites .
Through Facebook , people are able to maintain relationships with old acquaintances .
This benefit can not be obtained through telephone or mail because people 's particular and address may change from time to time on Facebook , people can keep in contact with old friends just by using name and photo , for example , as an identifier .
Facebook is like a combination of messages and chatting service , personal profile , media of sharing , and other entertainment add-on ( i.e .
social games ) which allow users to communicate with remote people , and also update and express themselves at the same time .
Twitter , that has more simplified function compared to Facebook , gives more benefits if used as information sharing media .
Twitter only allow users to give updates that is limited to short sentences in order to spread the words fast , that only highlighted messages are delivered .
For Facebook , a comprehensive way of sharing is offered in multiple photos and videos can be uploaded , long notes can be published , even documents and data can be shared through Facebook nowadays .
These advantages also come in handy as most of these social media sites are accessible through mobile applications in our smartphones .
Despite the luxury that is offered by social media , there are also harmful side effects which people may not realize it beforehand .
Research shows that face-to-face meeting frequency among people who are addicted to social media sites has been decreasing .
As a consequence , affects their interpersonal skills .
People can think while typing and prepare what they want to say but in face-to-face communication , every word that comes out of your mouth and may not be well arranged is the picture of your personality .
This skill requires practices and can not be done completely through social media .
There is a situation where a family is having dinner together in a restaurant but everybody is busy with their own gadget , posting a picture in Facebook , updating status on Twitter , or even chatting with friends .
These social media serves a purpose to bind people in spite of their geographical boundaries but it does n't mean that surrounding people are neglected as the payoff .
This is related to the interpersonal skills that is mentioned above , that can be decreasing qualitatively if we are used to facing gadget , not facing a human being .
Another disadvantage that affects other people is that by only showing the selected part of our lives , we build " false image " in public .
We tend to share our happy moments in media .
Because of this , people start to think that our lives are full of happiness with no problems at all .
Other people that are influenced by us and tend to do the same .
As a result , people think of themselves poor and may lead to depression and mental disorders .
It also reduces our sympathy .
This is a serious social problem and affects a lot of people .
As described above , modern and sophisticated technology does n't always give advantages .
There are a lot of problems that people may not realize .
It is up to people 's discretion and understanding to decide which side they want to take .
So , we should never forget to think of and calculate the profit and loss of every decision that we make .
Nowadays , the advancement of technology has improved the lives of many people a lot .
In most countries , there is an emergence of social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter .
Many people think that the social media sites have benefits in the communication between people , while some others argue that there are several negative impacts for society .
One of the advantages which are carried by the social media sites is that they can connect more closely than before .
In the past decade , when the social media sites are not fully developed , people connect with others who live far away by using a phone , or even a letter .
However , calling a person by using a phone and writing a person a letter requires some cost , and sending a letter to a person who live far away , especially in the villages , take a lot of time .
The appearance of the social media sites causes those problems to be solved .
People connecting through social media sites can spend no money on the communication , and also take only one or a few seconds for the message to reach .
Therefore , this advantage of social media sites save money and time , and also provide convenience for many people .
Moreover , this also provides an alternative way for people to contact a person whom they did not see for a very long time , such as their friends in primary school and secondary school .
As we graduate from the school , we will probably lose contact with some of our friends .
Some of them may have changed their phone numbers and addresses , and we are not able to find them through the phone or a letter .
If phone and letter are the only way to contact them , we would probably not able to find them .
Facebook and Twitter can serve as an alternative route to make the connection between us and our old friends .
Hence , the media sites serves as a platform for connection .
Everything comes with benefits will also have disadvantages .
On the other hand , social media sites also bring some negative impacts on people and society .
The advancement of those social media sites makes people so rely on them that some of them prefer using those sites to contact each other to talk to each other face to face .
Many people argue that this is the most serious problems caused by social media sites .
The usage of social media sites indirectly cause a reduction in face-to-face human communication in real life , which will in turn cause the loss of interpersonal skills for many people .
As we all know , the interpersonal skills are essential for us to communicate with each other and to present their views and ideas .
The loss of interpersonal skills in the inability of people to well present their ideas .
As a result , they will gradually decrease in their ability to compete with each other in society .
In conclusion , social media sites cause both positive and negative consequences for people and society .
As a part of this modern society , we should learn to distinguish between good and bad impacts brought by the advancement of technology , and also learn to avoid the disadvantages and maximize the benefits of those sites .
With the advancement of technology in recent years , the need to keep in-touch with people and the latest news has become a tremendous demand .
Some of the famous examples would be social media sites like Twitter and Facebook .
With an increasing users of more than a billion users from all over the world , social media sites have demonstrated clearly its success in playing an important part of our life .
However , there are arguments that social media life brings about a reduction in face-to-face human contact , which in turn affects interpersonal skills .
Let 's examine the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily lives and society .
First and foremost , all social media sites are free .
All users ' needs is an internet connection and an email account so that everyone can have a Facebook or Twitter ID to start their journey in social media life .
Secondly , it helps people to stay in-touch with one another .
Finding old friends through Facebook , for example , is easier than asking people around in real life .
Social media helps to reduce the hassle of geographical distance and brings people closer .
Thirdly , social media sites keep us up-to-date with the latest news and updates from almost everywhere in the world , all with a click away on the refresh button .
Last but not least , social media sites also link people together through allowing us to create our own groups , pages or sites to share our hobbies and interests and studies in particular subjects .
Hence , it is undeniable that these sites play an important role in global inter-connected world .
However , social media sites also have their second side of a negative impact on human .
Undeniably , it has become more addicted we spend more time busy socialising and interacting virtually .
We spend majority of our time on sites like Facebook , Twitter and it affects our daily work productivity and performance .
In the corporate world , employers often block social media network to prevent employees spend their office time on their personal leisure than concentrating on their work .
Using text-messaging language as an informal way of communicating on social media network also brings about a bad impact on us in the long term .
The more time we spend on these sites , the less time we spend on face-to-face interact with one another .
Hence it lessens valuable interaction between humans and the time we spend away from the computer screen or mobile phone .
In addition , there are also false reports and fake IDs occur on both social media sites that people use fake ID to insult or harass someone , like the case of Heather Chua occurred recently on Facebook .
These malicious comments often go viral and it creates a strong negative effect on the real users in real life , which might lead to unwilling attitude to interact with others in real life of the victim .
In conclusion , everything has its two-sided effect and it depends on how we exploit it .
With current booming technology , it is valid that people become more technology-savvy and they want to spend more time interacting with each other through social media sites , however , it does not mean that we should neglect face-to-face human interaction as it plays even more important in our life .
As more and more social websites such as Twitter , Facebook and Weibo which have become ubiquitous , seamless and imperative in our life , people may worry about the younger generation having problems with face-to-face communication skills .
However , I believe that the benefits brought by these online chat rooms tremendously outweigh the repercussions .
Social media enables us to explore the world far far away without paying expensive airplane ticket and sparing a one-week holiday .
The convenience is beyond description .
With a small smart phone or a computer at school , at work or at home , we can easily make friends worldwide with a 'click ' and get to know about their life through having conversations with them , reading their blogs , photos and status .
Compared to face-to-face communication , online conversation is easier for strangers to open his mouth to each other .
Since some of the information has already been revealed on the home page , it is easier to find some common topics to talk about .
Moreover , people usually like to share boldly about their real feelings online with their masks in reality are taken off .
This has been indicated in a report done by Boston University in 2012 , 80 % of information posted online is true when a person may like 3 out of 10 times in real life .
This shows that a facebook friend may know more about you than your close friend who does not have a facebook account .
That is because we are acting who we are in reality while we have no reason to do that in the online virtual world .
Although sometimes those genuine sharing of information may be inappropriate or even harmful , such as the prevalent use of vulgarity and harsh-meaning comments , we can minimize the repercussions through strict regulations of content online .
Another advantage of social media is in aiding the spread of democracy .
People around the world can easily share their thoughts about their government .
That eliminates the incomplete information disadvantage for some remote rural regions where people are less aware of what actually is happening around them .
One example is the 2012 riots in Egypt and Zambia .
The idea of searching for democracy is passed from the Egyptians to people in Zambia quickly through the use of social media .
However , the government controls most of the media .
These social media may be tools of the campaign and manipulating the thoughts of the public .
For example , in 2012 general election is Singapore , Dr Tan Chee Keong made use of facebook to spread their campaign videos to the public .
Though because of this , social media is still a much fairer and more transparent online platform for the public to share ideas compared to other traditional media .
Intensive use of Social media reduces the time people spend in face-to-face communication .
It is commonly seen in the food court or restaurant that a group of people sitting together around the table with each of them having a cell phone in their hands .
They are too busy with their way too many virtual friends and some of them neglect the feelings of their real-life friends .
In this case , I have to say that to err is human .
What we can do is to educate the public about the importance of their friends by their side and teach them to manage their time well .
In conclusion , the use of social media has more advantages than disadvantages in our daily lives .
What we can do is to cautiously manage our time spent online and manage our words use online .
With the regulations of the government and relevant authorities , the virtual world would be a better world .
Social media sites ' role of connecting people around the world is undeniable .
Thanks to the social media , the communication among people all over the world is possible and can be done with ease .
Apart from the ease of communication regardless of the distance , many other advantages such as knowledge sharing and trade can be done through social media as well .
Nevertheless , with the advantages , some disadvantages may appear such as reduction in face-to-face human contact which affects interpersonal skills , privacy issues , as well as some frauds that can be done through social media .
Twitter , Facebook and Skype are some social media sites which enable us to keep in touch with our friends or family who are in other cities or countries .
Through these sites we are able to talk to them , to know what their activities are and who their friends are , etc. From the surface point of view there is no doubt that these sites help us to have a better relationship with our relatives despite the distance .
The sharing of information can be done faster through social media as well , that is why nowadays many news publishers make their own social media account , for example , Channel News Asia has a twitter account and will update its follower with the headline news .
That shows how actually news and information can be shared easily through social media .
Furthermore , since many teenagers and young adults are fans of social media , this information can reach them easily without them need to watch or listen to the news reports .
Due to the popularity of social media , many people start to do their business in these sites .
More and more advertisements can be found on Facebook , whether it is our friends who sell their products or professional brands sell their products online , we can get to buy and contact the sellers through those sites , which can be considered as an advantage for us , the buyers .
However , it is the same when we keep in touch with someone virtually compared to when we meet them personally ?
I think there is a difference in it and I believe many of us will agree .
When we write or communicate virtually , we can hide our through feelings and many not become us since we do not want the other party to judge us .
Other than that , sometimes the message of one party can not be delivered properly to the other one since the communication is done through written language , and thus the 'tone ' of the messages sent and when it is received may be different .
Many people are very brave to tell people about their opinions online but in real life some of them can be very shy and not confident at all .
This will lead to a bad interpersonal skills as well as the problem of trust .
Nowadays we can not really trust new people who we know from social media since we will never know whether they are even 'real' .
Some people fake their identity in the media sites so that they can know more people or some may even cheat others .
In addition , privacy issues have become more popular nowadays since some people do not realize that they may actually share some information that they are not willing to share in the first place .
Therefore , while social media sites are undoubtedly bring benefits in our life , we should consider its drawbacks and thus use it wisely so that we can gain more of their benefits and disadvantages us in the smallest way as possible .
It is a common scene that almost everyone in the public transport is watching phone or wearing a pair ear piece in this modern society .
Not only one but many developed and developing countries have the same picture .
Some say that it is a necessary step for human revolution .
Social media sites like Twitter and Facebook are popular among people in order for them to connect to others even from different countries .
It also has many negative effects such as loss of face-to-face communication skills , which is important in their workplace .
This essay will discuss the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily lives .
One of the significant advantages of using a popular social media site is that people can reach other easily , even without contact for a long time .
In this fast pace and competitive world , people may not be able to keep in touch with others .
With the help of social media site , people are able to upload their new discoveries and funny scene in it and they can be updated the new information about their friends .
Personally I am studying overseas , busy study life keeps me away from contact my old friend .
Using a social media site with my friends to help me know what are their status nowadays .
And I am able to easily find a common topic when I contact .
In Singapore , many Malaysians cross the sea to work here .
Many of them are busy at work and separate with children .
One of the Manager in my workplace have the same situation .
After my Manager taught her mother how to use Facebook , she was able to upload video clips of their grandchildren .
Therefore my Manager would not miss a moment of her daughter 's growth .
Social media sites are a very useful tool for people to start a new friendship or relationship .
People get connected and closer to the same preferences .
It is easier for people to access the other after knowing the information .
Students can exchange their experiences in the study even if they are in different countries .
People are able to share their culture or pretty photos online , others can spread the joy with them .
Thus , I believe that social media sites are one of the most useful tool to help people know each other better .
However , social media site is a double-sided sword , it also brings in some negative effects on our daily life .
One of the disadvantages that many people concern is that people lose the interest of face-to-face communication .
Many people like to use language to pretend themselves , and lose confidence when they talk to each other .
Although not everyone is good at public relationship even without the existence of social media sites , we can not deny that it does affect some people in their ability of interpersonal skills .
In conclusion , the shadow always exist when it is light .
We should take advantage of the creatures we create and try to avoid the negative effects .
Social media sites supposed to be a very useful and convenient tool to use and bring people get closer in this globalised world .
The use of social media has largely influenced our ways of communicating with one another .
Online friends become real life friends and real life friends communicate with one another online .
Social media has changed our way of exchanging information and interpersonal relationships profoundly .
There are advantages and disadvantages to this change .
Social media has reshaped the way of communication .
In real life , we communicate with one another as equal participants .
We share ideas and stories and make friends based on mutual respect .
However , communication in social media is largely based on " broadcasting and listening " .
When we used facebook and post pictures and status .
We are actively " present " fa  ades of our lives in front of others .
We tend to post pictures with the best looks , status are funny .
We broadcast the facades of us to others .
The images we have chosen to present are tentatively considered .
The audience is not some specific people , but everyone we might know , or even the entire world .
There is an element of seeking out for attention rather than expressing one 's true opinion on social networks .
On the other hand , the audience , is not the listeners .
They are just scrolling down pages of pages of pictures and statuses and see one of them which they might think it funny .
It is not the broadcasters themselves they care about , the content .
This type of communication does not help forging interpersonal relationships .
In real life , establishing friendship the all-rounded understanding in one another and caring for one another .
The latter requires face to face interaction where we can show our emotions to the other .
One can not truly understand a person with only violating their facebook page where he/she carefully choose what to present .
One can truly show their emotions by another by texting some = ) signs .
The broadcasting and viewing model is not good for forging relationships .
However , it is good for sharing information .
In social media , everyone is a broadcaster and the viewer .
With my social network account , I seldom read newspapers or go to the news websites anymore ; because I can easily read them from the status of my friends .
If I am interested in politics , I can just follow the politics newspapers or public figures .
I have news for sales , clothes and cosmetics from my friends .
If some of my friends have horrible taste in clothes and he/she posts them often , I can simply block him/her off .
Information gets circulated .
The most popular information are circulated the most so I can seldom miss it .
Social network plays a role in providing and filtering information .
This saves a lot of time for me in reading the newspapers and watching TV .
Personally I feel more at ease in social media .
From the above two points of view I think social media could forge more interest-based friendship .
With the help of social media , I become real life friends with those from online forums that I share the same interest .
I also discovered some of my friends ' interest , which I find common with myself so that talking to one another is much more about life , study , friends , etc .
The communication does not focus on how we feel , or to say , each otherm , but whatever is interesting , or the content .
In this case , interpersonal skills are not as important because our goal is not to impress somebody , but to get the information that we are both interested in .
In conclusion , I think social media has reshaped interpersonal relationships from a more human-based friendship that requires sharing and caring between friends , to a more information-based friendship that requires a mutual interest .
There are advantages and disadvantages in itself , however , whether it is good or bad we are still not sure .
It is different .
Advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily life
People that living in the modern world really can not live without the social media sites like Twitter and Facebook .
Almost all students and young adults possess the Facebook or Twitter account .
It is true that social media makes people be able to connect one another more conveniently .
However , it seems that , especially for those , sharing some part of their lives , such as videos and photos on the social media sites become really necessary .
An extremely interesting and ironic phenomenon was discovered that a group of friends met and sat around the table , but none of them were really chatting with one another .
Instead , all of them were more interested in posting pictures of the " special " meeting on their social media sites .
Therefore , there is a need to discuss the advantages and disadvantages of social media .
Social media enables people from different parts of the world to communicate with one another .
People used to write letters and send post cards to keep in touch with people live far away from them in the past .
It can take a few days or weeks those to receive messages .
Nowadays , people need to do is just typing in front of the computer in their room .
And people on the other hand will only need a second to receive the message .
Distance and time are no longer problems , which is convenient , especially when instant chat is needed .
However , when people become more and more addicted to this convenience and fail to communicate with people who are close to them , their face-to-face interpersonal skills are lost .
Social media provides people a way of talking and chatting , which can never be considered as a method of communication .
When one chat on those media sites , there is no eye connection , no emotion delivery and even the expressions , are typed in by using some combinations of punctuation .
For more convenient , sentences were shortened to simply three or four words such as lol ( which means laugh intensively ) and " asap " ( which means as soon as possible ) .
People indeed go to great lengths to make their words as shorter as they can .
While , once they are communicating with people in the face , expressing themselves appropriately become a really big problem .
Social media also provides people a huge brunch information about people and things that they interest .
For example , on Twitter , it is exciting to follow people that you adore like famous movie and series stars , business men and entrepreneurs .
It makes people feel extremely close to their admirers ' lives and work .
Updated news people care about can easily be obtained when you refresh your social media sites on your smart phones and laptops almost every time at any time .
However , after one has registered in the social media sites which are not reliable , all the information you have filled in will be a weapon against you in the future .
Furthermore , not everyone in social media sites are honest .
The profile picture may not be the person who that user says he or she really is .
The reason might just be that he or she just wants to " decorate " his or her face .
But there is a possibility that the person on the other side is deceiving you in order to obtain your information against you .
No pledge of authenticity risks people 's information and privacy are shared on social media sites .
To sum up , social media has advantages and disadvantages in people 's daily lives .
It shortens the distance between people from all over the world and makes instant communication possible .
And it is more convenient to obtain and update information by using social media .
On the contrary , social media makes people lose their ability to communicate effectively in their real lives and makes people risk exposing their privacy to those whose identity can not be verified on the social media sites .
How does social media help change our lives ?
As the development of technology , social media becomes more and more significant role in the whole world .
Everyone in the world can not stop using it every day to express their feelings or ideas and a log of other stuff which helps their friends to know their lives better .
However , it also raised the concerns about whether it brings more benefits or a disaster .
Although it helps to connect us with our friends wherever we are , and at the same time reduces the chance for us to talk to our friends face to face , which may affect our interpersonal skills .
Thus , whether there are more advantages or disadvantages is a tough question for every human being .
Many people say they will support the media since it really helps them to have a closer view about how their friends are going in other parts of the world .
This is especially for people who are overseas .
To them , social media is the only resource they can approach to know everything that happened in their home country and the way they can use to show their lives to their lovers as well .
What 's more , these days social media plays an important role in spreading information .
Nowadays , people can easily make their renting information on their facebook account and wait for the response from others who are from different parts of the world which has brought us a huge amount of convenience .
It is quite significant , especially for those young teenagers since they would rather go to these sites to see the news and know what happens in this world than read the newspaper every day .
However , there are also a great number of people who are against this technology .
They worry a lot about the bad effects on teenagers who are still developing themselves .
They point that actually social media reduces the chance for us to talk to the people around us face to face .
The more we care about facebook , the less time we will have to spend with our friends .
Nowadays , it is quite common to see some party , people more prefer looking at their phones and reading all the posts on facebook if they feel bored .
It makes people worry since if all teenagers continue using social media frequently , they will decrease the ability to talk to people .
They will feel it is difficult for them to find any topics to communicate with other people .
Personally , I strongly agree that social media has more disadvantages than advantages it gives us .
Although it is really useful when we need to use it to let other people know we really live a good life , it wastes us a lot of time as well .
Think in another way , if we put the time we spend on wandering on those sites , we may already finished one book or do other more meaningful things .
We should keep in mind that there are ways for us to contact our family or friends .
Everything will be bad if we do n't know how to use them wisely whether it is really good .
As a result , it is important for people to know that we need to be cautious about the time we spend on these social media .
As stated above , I strongly believe that if we can use social media wisely rather than abusing it , we will all live a better life .
The advantages and disadvantages of social media
Nowadays , as the technology is becoming increasingly advanced , more and more social media sites are showing up in our daily lives .
You can see people playing Facebook , Twitter through their smart phone or ipad on buses or on trains .
Some may say that the appearance of the modern media will reduce the chance for people to communicate face to face .
This essay will illustrate the pros and cons of using social media in modern society .
Firstly , social media can make it more convenient for people to make friends and contact each other .
Years ago when these modern products were not popular , the way for people to communicate or contact people far way are restricted in making phone calls , sending emails or writing letters .
Some will take a long time and some are not efficient enough for people to get their response .
However , social media solve these problems as well .
People can contact their friends on the Internet and get their answer very fast .
The communication is not limited in words .
People can express themselves through pictures and emotions .
People can also get to know their friends ' and mood by looking at their posts in line .
Moreover , people can be aware of what is going on in social situations and see the comments online and share their opinions on these websites .
These social media makes people 's lives more colourful and provide a lot of fun .
However , social media could do some harm to people 's lives .
It will make people spend more time on chatting on the Internet rather than communicate face to face so that the interpersonal skills will be badly affected .
Some people spend a lot of time with them and forget their real life .
Actually , I have seen some people are very funny and interesting when I was chatting with them online .
However , they behave quite annoying when I talk to them in real life .
Teenagers are developing their interpersonal skills and social skills when they grow up .
If they spend too much time on these social media , it may cause some problems with their mental development .
They may feel uncomfortable when they communicate with people face to face .
Some may share fewer and fewer time with their families and not knowing how to express themselves .
Moreover , some wrong values on the websites will affect teenagers and confused .
Some may even do something wrong .
In conclusion , the showing of social media sites is a double edged sword .
It can make life simpler .
People can promote their friendships and relationships through social media .
However , it can also make people forget to communicate with their family and friends in real life and affects negatively to their interpersonal skills .
But overall , the advantages far outweigh its disadvantages .
So we need to make use of these social media and make it a fun way of adding some excitement when life is boring .
And try to bypass the shortcomings .
Remember to send greetings to their friends and family , frequently .
Nowadays , with the advancement of technology , it is easy to communicate wherever you are .
The appearance of social media sites truly connect people close .
People can know their friends ' recently looks and interesting things happen that people just by checking their facebook or other social media sites .
We can not deny that the media sites truly make the old friends do not lose the information and the chances to communicate with you even if you are in a different country .
However , the media sites truly reduce communication in face-to-face which truly affects interpersonal skills .
There are two advantages and two disadvantages of using the media in people 's daily lives .
Firstly , the social media sites can connect people with their friends and parents close .
By typing the words and showing pictures , people can express their emotions that they are too shy to express .
For example , on mother 's day , people are shy to say " I love you " to their mothers so they can type it on his or her mother 's facebook page .
Then his or her mother also know the emotion and feel warm .
On the other hand , when the teenager is studying in a foreign country , the internet is the only way that he can communicate with their parents and friends .
Therefore , the media is truly good for the people .
Secondly , the social media sites can not only connect people with their friends close .
People can also know more information about the celebrity in Twitter and Facebook such as Obama , Bill Gates and get the first-hand study materials on it .
They can learn how these people succeed and they can also have the chance to talk with them and know these famous people ' thought by using the media .
On the other hand , with the help of social media , some homeless people or someone who need the money to cure the disease can get help from the world quickly because once one person know the information , his or her will share it with their " friends area " , then many people will know it and spread the information to the person who can give help .
On the other hand , there are also problems with the population of social media .
Firstly , when people rely on the media to communicate with their friends and parents , they will accustomed to communicate by typing and not talking .
People even prefer to talk to their friends and meet their friends online and gradually rejecting face-to-face communication .
Therefore , the media truly limit the interpersonal skills so that people lose the chance and the ability to practice talking and connect the relation between him and their friends .
Secondly , without truly communication in real life , people lose the ability to see the truth and false .
There are many people in the media with beautiful image and good content in their pages , however , in real life , he or she may do not have jobs or live poorly .
Teenagers may believe these people and be easily cheat and lose money even if their safe .
Therefore , the media are not safe , which is bad to teenager 's future development .
All in all , the appearance of social media truly helps people a lot in many areas .
However , there are existing some disadvantages which affect people in some degree .
Advantages and Disadvantages of Using Social Media in Our Daily life and Society .
Nowadays , with the development of technology and society , social media become more popular and even important in our daily life .
We communicate with others using the social media , such as twitter , facebook and microblog more and more frequently .
There is no need for people to go out of their homes to interact with others , they chat online , share pictures , tell others what they have done or funny stories .
It seems that people build a good relationship with others through the media , but the problems come out .
Pepope do not know how to talk with each other face to face , especially the strangers .
Then , we need to talk about the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in your daily life and society .
As for the advantages , there are two aspects : more convenient to contact others , easier to know about others .
One advantage is that it is more convenient to contact others by social media .
In the old days , if one wants to tell you some important news to another one , who lives far away , he needs to write letters and it wastes time .
The long distance and time-consuming make spreading the messages very difficult at that time .
Therefore , people may not contact the faraway friends and relatives unless there is something important .
However , people can now contact anyone all over the world who can use a computer at any time , and there is no time delay of messages .
The other advantage is that it is easier to know about others by social media .
If there is no social media , it is difficult for people to know about a stranger .
They may collect information about him by asking his friends , colleagues and family members .
The information collected may not be intact and true .
Unlike today , with the help with social media , people can easily get the information they want by searching on line , and know about what that person did every day at what time .
As for the disadvantages of social media in our daily lives , wasting time , causing illnesses related to sitting for a long time before the computer , quick-spread of rumours and fake news , most importantly , making people lose the ability to talk to others face to face confidently .
It is weird that people sit around the table but all face their phones and not talk to each other .
If there is a joke on their facebook page , they may talk to others in this way , " him , look , how ridiculous this is " , then they laugh together .
No matter whether it is a party , dinner or simply get-together , there are always some people bow their head and playing their phones even their family and friends are in front of them .
In conclusion , there are both advantages and disadvantages to using social media in daily life .
People should enjoy the advantages of social media while be aware of the disadvantages of that and try their best to avoid the disadvantages happen to them and their friends and family .
Today the world is considered to be the social media sites like Facebook and Twitter which are attractively connecting people around the world .
However , some people worry that social networks can affect interpersonal skills as it reduces face-to-face human contact .
The advantages and disadvantages of using such social media in society are elaborated on as follows .
Nobody can deny that social media 's advantages as the benefits it provides in connecting people regardless of nationalities , races , cultures and languages .
Social media is trending channel and a suitable means of communication .
Firstly , social media brings convenience to the world .
It has erased the boundaries of distance and time .
No more worries about the time it takes to deliver letters and packages .
Nowadays , thanks to the help of social media , with just one click , you can contact your family and friends wherever you want .
You can share photos , videos and every meaningful experience of your life .
More importantly , it is cheap and easy to use social media .
Secondly , social media network opens the door of opportunities for people due to its great benefit in connecting .
A lot of fresh graduates find jobs thanks to Facebook and Twitter .
Young people can widen their relationships , to meet new friends and learn wonderful things in many parts of the world .
In business , social media is a good tool to develop and advertise products and services .
On the other hand , social media also has disadvantages which have created worries society recently and made it a controversial phenomenon .
More and more young people tend to live in the social media world most of their time and reduce face-to-face human contact , which can affect interpersonal skills and relationships in social life .
First and foremost , we should realize that social media world is trustworthy and real .
Everyone can easily make the personality and characteristics they want .
They can be anyone .
Though social media do create relationships , relationships and friendships are only firm and real if people have gone through experiences and communication in face-to-face communication .
There is a story of a girl who lives in the social media world every night in eight years .
In the chat room , created a close relationship with eight people .
She talked with them every night , trust them and share her life with them .
Then , she discovered that eight people became one as he was using eight different identities to chat with her all the time .
Furthermore , the convenience of social media is its weaknesses .
A lot of people use their true information on social media sites , which can lead to crime and deception .
People can use the information to deceive family and friends and banks to do bad things such as blackmail , ATM theft and so on .
Last but not least , social media does affect human interpersonal skills when people increase their time on social sites and reject chances to expose to social daily life as well as interacting with people .
Recent research has shown that the more people spend time on social media sites , the less they became ambitious .
As a result , if the situation keep going on in this unexpected trend , it will cause a bad effect on the younger generation .
To put it in a nutshell , everything has its own pros and cons .
So do social media network .
It is convenient and beneficial in connecting people and developing the business but it can also damage people relationships and interpersonal skills .
Social media is beneficial as long as we know how to use it in the correct and suitable way with the combination of both social media sites and daily life interaction to develop people 's potential to the fullest .
