Keeping the Secret of Genetic Testing
What is the genetic risk ?
Genetic risks referring more to your chance of inheriting disorder or disease .
People get a certain diseases because of genetic change .
How much genetic change tells by about your chance of developing disorder is not always clear .
If your genetic results indicate that you have gene changes associated with an increased risk of heart disease , it does not mean that you definitely will develop heart disease .
The opposite is also true .
If your genetic results show that you do not have changes associated with an increased risk of heart disease , it is still possible that you develop heart disease .
However for some rare diseases , people who have certain gene changes are guaranteed to develop the disease .
When we are diagonosed out with certain genetic diseases , are we supposed to disclose this result to our relatives ?
My answer is no .
On one hand , we do not want this potential danger causing firghtenning affects in our families ' later life .
When people than us know that we got a certain disease , their altitudes will be easily changed , whether caring us too much or keeping away from us .
And both are not what we want since most of us just want to live as normal people .
Surrounded by such concerns , it is very likely that we are distracted to worry about these problems .
It is a concern that will be with us during our whole life , because we will never know when ''potential bomb' ' will explode .
On the other hand , if there are ways can help us to control or cure the disease , we can go through thses process beyond the scope of the whole family .
For example , exercise exercising is helpful for family potential disease , we can always look for more of for the family to go exercise .
And we keep track of all family members health conditions .
At the same time , we are prepared to know when there are other members got this disease .
Here I want to share Forest'view on this as .
Although some people feel that an individual who is found to carry a dominant gene for Huntington 's disease has an ethical obligation to disclose that fact to his or her siblings , there currently is no legal requirement to do so .
In fact , requiring someone to communicate his or her own genetic risk to family members who are therefore also at risk is considered by many to be ethically dubious .
"
Nothing is absolute right or wrong .
If certain disease , genetic test is very accurate and it is unavoidable and necessary to get treatment and known by others , it is OK to disclose the result .
Above all , life is more important than secret .
Genetic risk does carry its consequences and should not be taken lightly within the family circle .
Afterall , what affects one family may or may not affect another although the family have a common genetic make up , shared by either of the parents .
In cases where an individual has get to know of a genetic disorder , disclosing or otherwise , to his or her relative is solely a matter of preference for the indivdial moral system .
The issue of right to know or not to know is highly debatable although it is a genetic risk , one can not be entire sure because the genetic information could possibly result in the families of either parents - his maternal and paternal uncles , aunts or cousins .
This also means that as soon a person is made aware of his or her genetic profile , he or she concurently has of about others .
This knowledge maybe relavant to them , and vice versa .
An example that may serve as an illustration is breast cancer .
It is hereditary .
Do one who suffered from this disease keep it secret of infrom their relatives ?
 retrospect , it is also the one duty to ensure that he or she undergoes periodic healthchecks in their own .
In Sometimes retrospect , its is also ones duty to ensure that he or she undergo periodic healthchecks in their own .
 on whom the genetic risk was discovered from : the son or daughter for example , the parents who know about this would decide who gets told and whom takes pattern of communication tell .
Depending on whom the genetic risk was discovered to : the son or daughter against example , the parents who knows about this would decide who gets told and whom takes the precedence in being 'allowed ' to tell .
For example , within a family , regardless of who had first received genetic information , parents were seen as having the primary responsibility to pass on information to any offspring , either adult at risk .
In addition , a woman testing positive for BRCA1 would be expected to allow her brother or sister to disclose such information to relatives who need to know ( such as nieces and nephews ) nor persuade those with authority ( the parents ) to risk information as they not want to know .
Hence The , there were also tensions if participants felt that they could neither pass on information to relatives who needed to know ( such as nieces and nephews ) nor persuade those with authority ( the parents ) to do so .
For example , a grandmother may have more authority to pass on information from an aunt , even when she is not at genetic risk herself while the aunt is .
From a practitioner 's perspective these findings are important because if lay constructs of the family and kinship are a social construct they may not be in line with geneticists ' views of family relationships , or about which blood ( or non-blood ) relatives should be informed and of whom ; this is also likely to be dependent on the cultural and ethnic context .
Ultimately , one must bring attention to who may benefit from such information and assisting those at risk of making considered decisions about disclosure .
Whose duty it is to inform at risk relatives or not greatly depends on the personal moral and the nature of how 'directive ' the risk is to than .
People with close blood relationships generally carry some similar genes .
In this case , if one of the family members or close relatives is found to carry genetic risk , it is better for the patient to tell his/her close relatives about the issue and let others know about the risk so that his/her familay members are able to perform some daily excesses to prevent the potential disease or they may go to hospital and check for the correspongding flows .
In my opinion , although the annouance of carrying a genetic risk involves the issue of self privacy , it is necessary for the carrier to be obligated to tell the issue by his or her relatives in order for them to prevent the potential disease .
I agree with this statement to a large extent .
Focus on the negative side of annouance of genetic risk first .
Large numbers of patients with the genetic risk would want to keep it as a secret as the genetic risk may indicate their high chance to carry certain disease .
Especially for young people without marrige , if he/she know known to have some genetic risk , it may have certain chance that his/her child would carry the same disease , but not in certain .
Therefore , to keep the information as secret to his/her future spouce would help the relationship .
Secondly , annouance the potential risk would cause the family member to be scared of this certain issue , although the factor would not be that serious , people would still fear that they would have some potential disease in the future thus go to hospital and do additional check or take more medicine in order to prevent the disease , and this creats unnecessary costs to the family .
Furthermore , the annouance of genetic risk would affect the relationship with the relatives as some others may think not to stay too close to the carrier so that they have less chance to get the potential disease .
On the other hand , if the genetic risk is kept as a secret , although it may benefit the carrier to a certain extend and help to keep the privacy , but it has much larger negative impacts to the family members and relatives .
First , for the case of marrige , people should be honest and tell his/her spouce they may carry certain genetic risk that may affect their offspring .
It is better to let the other party know the fact than after the baby is born and a certain types of genetic disease is found .
It is better for both parties to be honest .
Secondly , genetic disease has a close relationship between the born genes together with their daily habits .
For example , if a carrier is told that he/she has the risk to have diabetes .
In this case , the carrier can eat less candies and chocolates to prevent intake to much sugars , and at the same time , if the carrier tells this information by the relatives , it will be useful for them to know that they may have diabetes in the future becouse of related genes and they can perform the same exercise to intake less sugar to prevent the disease .
Otherwise , if the other parties did not know , they may end up with to have diabete in the future in any prevention .
In conclusion , we could tell the benefits of telling genetic risk to the carriers relatives overweight overweights costs .
Therefore , it would be better for the carrier to be obligated to tell the information by to relatives , in order to let them know and prevent the potential as through daily exercises .
By all kinds of different diseases , a large amount of different kinds of disorders are caused by genetic reasons .
Genetic disorder may or may not be hirataged hereditary disease and it is sometimes hard to find out one has these kinds of diseases .
It is a long time discussion that whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives that his or her disease is caused by gene .
From the legal aspect , the answer is nothing but from the ethical aspect , the answer should be yes .
We ca n't make a law to push a carrier of a known genetic risk to tell his or her relatives about his genetic problem .
It is immoral and impractical .
Firstly , some had what kind of disease belongs to his or her privacy .
Privicy protection belonging to one 's human rights .
If the law requires someone to tell others ' his or her privacy especially when one is not willing to do so .
It is againt his or her human rights and it is against the law 's spirit .
The law 's spirit also includes include fairness .
What is the basic difference between genetic disorder and other disorders .
It is unfair to release the law only point to genetic disorder .
In addition , it is impractical to make such a law .
A good law should be clear and easy to execute .
However , there are many problems againt the execution of asking a carrier to tell his or her ralatives the cause of his or her disease .
Firstly , what is the range of relatives ?
For example , does the carrier only need to tell his or her direct relatives by parents and brothers and sisters or does he also needs to tell relatives like his grandmother 's sister 's son 's daughter 's nephew ?
If you say only need to tell direct relatives , it will be in the fairness of law .
The Other relatives may have the same possibility to have such kind of disease .
How can a law made by the government exempt such a group of people in prepared to face their potetial disease ?
However , from the ethical point of view .
To the carrier himself of herself , he of she should have a feeling of resposiblity to tell his or her relatives their genetic disorder .
By doing this ,they may be able to save some lives of their relatives .
It is because a carrier of bad gene may not necessarily have those genetic disease , if they can have coresponding healthy lifestyle before the age that the gene 's function becomes stronger .
A typical example is genetic causes hypertension .
Hypertension can be caused by genetic problems which make the carrier harder to digest the fat and salt in blood which can cause hypertension .
People usually get this kind of hypertesion after they become adults .
However , if they already know they have a gene that may make them have higher possibility to get hypertention .
They can build a daily habit of eating less salt and fat and thus to avoid hypertension .
In a nutshell , our society ca n't push genetic problem carrier to tell his or her disease by his or her relatives but he or she should be willing to tell his or her relatives about his or her genetic problem .
By doing so , less than his or her beloved ones will suffer from the genetic problem .
In the age of rapid technological advancement , a lot of medical breakthroughs are made possible .
Genetic testing is made possible and available for one 's decision to undergo .
It is able to detect illness or disease and even a child 's parentage .
However , it will become a controversial issue as it becomes a dilemma for a carrier of a known genetic risk to inform his or her relatives .
If the knowledge of the genetic risk was to be shared with the family or relatives , there might have chances for them to have it in their blood , which they may do necessary precautions to prevent .
But , if it is a terminal disease as a genetic disease , most of the relatives will be disheartened upon having knowledge about it .
Therefore , some carriers will have the opinion of keeping it as a secret .
This essay will discuss about whether a carrier of known genetic risk should tell his or her relatives or not .
Some said that the genetic risk that is found in a person should be kept secret because it is considered as a personal information which should be kept confidential .
Most patients will be depressed after realising his or her condition .
If one has a genetic disease in the test , he or she might not wish to inform the relatives as he mightn end up dishearten his extended family .
Some will wish to keep it to themselves and hope to ensure that they will not bring in any pessimism into their family .
Furthermore , some will wish not to become a burden to anyone as seeking medical attention is relatively costly .
Hence , some saw it as being considerate in keeping the genetic risk of getting the disease in confidential .
On the other hand , others may think that it will be considerate to tell relatives because the latter will have a higher to get getting the same genetic risk .
Hence , they will be able to seek help from medical specialists to find a cure or to do some measure to prevent the risk of getting the disease .
Nevertheless , it will depend on what kind of genetic diseases , given in the context of current medical technology .
For example , breast cancer is a genetic disease and it can be cured if it is being realised at the early stage .
Hence , with the knowledge of having genetic risk , the relatives with this genetic disease will do a medical check-up , which might save them in realising it at an earlier stage .
In conclusion , it will be considerate to inform the risk of getting the same genetic disease from to relatives .
Although there might be a lot of challenges to the way to seek medical attention , such as financial issues , everyone should be given the right to know their family 's inherented medical conditions .
However , some think that it might be better than those who are ignorant about it and will continue leading a happy life .
In addition , some may think that even know to have genetic risk of the disease , it will just adding on add their misery as there is nothing that they can do about it .
All-in-all , it depends on individual and also the nature of the disease , but he or she should be obligated to inform the relatives if there are possibilities of curing or preventing it .
Genectic testing is a personal decision , with the kowledge that there is a possiblity that one could be a carrier or not .
Those who are born into a family with a history of genetic disease should be allowed to undergo genetic testing , even though if there is no risk of all .
Early pre-examination is healthy as it will cast away unwanted doubts and affect the psychological thoughts of those who are affected .
Of a genetic risk carrier , there should be a choice given with regards to informing his/her relatives .
There should not be forced or obligied to do so , as it may negatively and drastically affect the emotions of the genetic risk carrier .
With regard to this choice given , there must be some rules to regulate and exercise personal freedom of decision making .
If the genetic risk carrier is a minor or a child , then most likely the decision of informing the relative should be made with the consideration of the patients , parents or legal guardian .
Such patients are still emotionally volatile or they may be unaware of the consequences of such genetic disorder due to their young age .
Furthermore , the act of informing others without consent from their parents or the patient itself could harm the psychological state of the affected families .
Thus , much thought need to put on the immediate family as it could cause a stir by unwanted events in the patient or family members itself .
Some families may feel hurt , with regard with their family pride or reputation , in having knowledge of such genetic runniest running in their family .
However , there is a role and a sense of responsibility to inform their relatives since it is a genetic disorder .
There might be a possibility that the genetic disorder could also affect their relatives and any other families within the same family tree .
The importance of informing relatives with such genetic disease is vital as it may help to raise awareness and prevention towards the genetic disorder .
Also , this known information will help their relatives to make informed decisions and tosimilarly undergo genetic testingto find out about the outcome .
Thus , having the knowledge that such genetic disorder is benign would be beneficial towards their emotinal thought .
And if the results turn out to be otherwise , then the family can be prepared emotionally and psychologically for the future outcome and aid them in making upcoming decisions .
In addition , the genetic risk carrier would be showered with moral and emotional support from their relatives if it is being made known to them .
Having support from relatives are vital as they ensure the genetic risk carrier that he/she is not alone in facing this illness and it will certainly provide a morale boost as the whole family will share a common sentiment with regards towards the future prospect of the genetic disorder which could be inherited by anyone in the family .
Therefore , the decision to inform relatives with such genetic disorder will be dependent on the situation and backgroung of the affected family , with the liberty of choice given to them in making the decision of informing others .
A person with a disorder , regardless of mental or physical disorder , is always easy to be awared by his or her family .
When things come to genetic issues , it is not that simple anymore .
Genetic disorder inheritance is generated by generation , but not all of the offspring show the relevant symptoms .
Sometimes a family at potential genetic disorder risk may not be able to detect potential to inside their bodies as none of their reflects reflect any observable disorder symptoms .
As a result , in the case that when one of the members happens to feel uncomfortable or unnormal , he or she should aware that whether the disorder in his or her body is a genetic risk or not .
Afterward , the carrier will face a serious ethical issue , which is to reveal the problem to his or her relatives or not .
If the disorder symptoms reflect on a kid , the parent will be informed by the medics for sure , then the whole family will stay alert to their bodies ' condition .
On the contrary , if the carrier is an adult , who has his own choice to choose whether to inform his or her relatives about the risk , that will be more complex .
One may think that if the carrier is a caring person who loves his or her family more as himself , there is no doubt that he or she will tell his or her family about the issue .
That is true and of course it is the obligation of a family member to protect and take care of the family .
Think of the other way , if a child of the family knows that he has the risk of becoming a genetic risk carrier , and the risk might as well inherit to by child in the future , his whole life will be in a dilenma .
And of course , he or she will think of not having any children to get married , and the same thought goes to the cousins as well .
As a result , the family generatively stops for the moment the adult carrier announces his issue .
In China , the older generation with traditional cultural background , will always thought to have more children as well as grandchildren , to make the family liven up and stronger .
The reason to be that after WOWII the , population of China decreased dramatically and so the government encourage encourages people to give more births .
During that period , if one of the family member reflects genetic disorder symptoms , he will fall in an ethical dilenma for sure .
The medical treatment technology of that time is not advanced enough to completely cure him .
He has to choose whether to protect his family or make his family more prosperousness from a potential generic risk .
And so , he would have chosen not to undergo generic disorder testing and let the truth is mined forever .
This kind of ethical issues can not be judged by others because they will not understand the position and duties of the carrier in the family .
In concluding , people should think carefully of what is the consequences of telling relatives his or her generic disorder issue .
 In my opinion , the carrier should tell his or her relatives about it .
It is an obligation of a carrier to be fatal , or it does not cause any inconvenience to the carrier , revealing the truth is always the family .
Regardlessly In , if the disorder is rarely to be fatal , or it does not caused any inconvenience by the carrier , revealing the truth is always the right thing to do .
One of the reasons why is because as a carrier , she or he needs a mental support to go through with this situation .
It will be hard for an individual to deal with the issue on its own .
By telling to his or her family other than being a support , they could possibly help her to get alternative solutions to the problem that she is facing right now .
Other than that , I believe that the stong bond we have with our family is the biggest pillar of support to the carrier .
Furthermore , as it is a genetic problem , it will be better for the carrier to inform his or her family as other family members might experience the same thing .
By making sure that they are aware of this genetic problem , they could have a full check-up for themselves and it will be better if they could even prevent it from happening to themselves .
I find that it is important to inform especially if it is contagious , the carrier could prevent the disease from spreading out through the society .
For every action , there are always the pros and cons .
I believe that some of the carriers will choose to not reveal their disease to the family members as they do not want to make their family members worry and feel uncomfortable or even feel ostracized by them .
Furthermore , as it could incur spending lots of on for the treatment , the carrier might not want to be on burden in her family .
I could understand the feelings of the carrier .
She or he does not want to be a source of unhappiness in thefamily .
However , we will never know whether this negative effects will happen when the carrier decided to tell his or her family of his or her condition .
In conclusion , personally I feel that it is better for the carrier to inform her family members about the issue .
The carrier should be honest about his or her feelings and I find that it is the right of the family member to know what is going on to his or her life .
If anything wrong happened to the carrier 's life , without informing the family members , it could make a huge regret in their life if she leaves without them knowing about it .
On top of that , it is better to think about solutions for her problem as the family members as there are more heads to think about it rather than thinking about it alone and struggling on your own .
In the end , I believe that the support in terms of mental or even monetary from your family could help the carrier to fight against the genetic disease .
True enough that there are lots of cancer 's patients who were given a second choice to live as a normal person as they have a strong mental support from their loved one .
For my opinion , as long as we keep our mind healthy and strong , we can fight any disease as they come to us when we are fragile and weak .
As the techonology has been advancing , it has reached a stage whereby advanced advancement triggers some ethical dilemmas in by to the acutual use of the techonology .
Genetic testing has been made possible- it has become easy to tell if one is a carrier of known genetic risk of genetic testing .
If used for a good purpose , it can prevent unnecessary unhappiness , however , it could also make the situation worse by revealing who the carrier is , in the family .
The question given is whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives and I think that the carrier should not be obligated to do so because I belive that he or she has right not to know .
Firstly , genetic testing is not something that is compulsory .
Of course , some people may do it to make their futures slightly happier , however , the carrier , for the testing , can choose not to go for the test and simply live with unknowns and accept the facts .
If he choose to live in the uncertainty that the gene holds and willing to accept it , he could do that , and it has been something that is 'normal ' to everyone in the past as gentic testing was not possible .
It could rather be better for him or her this way .
Some people might say that it is a form of prevention of giving birth to disabled lives and making them suffer in real-life .
I personally think this ist his right purpose of going through the genetic testing , so that a family who can not afford to have a disabled kid does not have to give birth to their child and make the entire family suffer .
However , I belive that the carrier has right not to obligate to tell anyone but has a responsibility to take action to prevent any ethical dilemma .
If the results turned out something that the carrier can not accept then it would have been better not knowing the truth .
I belive that even the carrier has the right not to know the true fact .
After realizing he or she is tshe carrier , the emotional damage would be hard to bear .
It could possibly cause a problem in a family due to the facts and creates more unhappiness int the family .
Overall , I belive that it entirely depends on the carrier to share the hard facts and face it with relatives but he has no obligation to tell still .
In fact , I strongly think that the carrier should weigh both the positive and negative consequences of taking genetic testing and tak an appropriate action to the results .
The emotional depression that the carrier might get and the sense of guilt can be more than expected and could be a burden on mind at the rest of life .
On the other hand , without knowing any genetic disorder and accepting the fact , the family will stay positive and work together to overcome the diability .
I think the family will stay mentally healty as it is , without having emtional stress .
Debates have been around per years , that should a carrier for a known genetic risk is obligated to inform his or her relatives .
Any individual at risk for a disorder has the right to undergo genetic testing , but whether the results should be informed to others , especially close family or relatives , is the topic that worth discussing .
This is an issue needs to be addressed as family-related ethical dilemma is involved .
In this essay , few arguments will be pointed out in support of view for any carrier of that known genetic risk to tell his or her relatives .
When we were born , we were surrounded by our family and relatives , with them welcoming us to this new world .
We were crying hard but we are not alone , it 's our family and relatives that grows us up .
Hence , they should be the people be grateful for and the people we would like to share the joy together .
However , in the case pertaining to any health issue or to the extent of serious disorder , it may seem no point of sharing but this involves more than just sharing of bad news .
One definitely has the right to disclose his or her health issues to anyone , but it 's also one 's responsibility to inform the family and close relatives .
To the case of health issue is related to genetic risk , with keyword on " genetic " which highlights the risk of passing down the disorder to the next generation .
Therefore , I would agree to that it 's obligated for a carrier of known genetic risk to tell his or her relatives to avoid any family-related ethical dilemma that could be raised up in the future .
To one may argue that it 's still up to the individual to disclose such health issues or to bear it within him/herself , it 's certainly helpful to share with close relatives , in a proper discussion of solutions .
Like doing so , one will feel less stress in facing such disorder risk .
Relatives will certainly be supportive and show more caring towards the carrier of known genetic risk .
By informing them , the carrier is never alone in fighting the battle of such disorder risk .
On top of that , as the genetic risk may pass down to the next generation , thus it will involve more than just one family .
It is therefore I would agree for the obligation of telling relatives of both parties when one is about to get married and have a to give giving birth .
This would avoid the rise of more family-related ethical dilemma .
There are more intangible advantages that could support the stand of informing relatives once the results are as after the test conducted .
In conclusion , in order to avoid the family-related ethical dilemma , it is best for any carrier of known genetic risk to inform his/her relatives .
The benefits of doing so are able to outweigh its disadvantages .
More support must be provided through different means to give better direction when one is standing of such junction whether should him/her to inform the relatives .
The decision to undergo genetic testing can only be made by the individuals at risk for disorder .
This is the common law in society .
However , it leads to a new problem that " should a carrier of a known genetic risk is obligated to tell his or her relatives ?
" This issue has been discussed for a long time .
However , there is still a diversity of points of view among people .
Thus , we are going to identify the advantages and disadvantages of the issue which is " should or should not " .
Firstly , I believe most of us will agree with the sentences below : " I will be anxious about my family when he or she told me that he or she was a carrier of a known genetic risk " .
Frequently , the intention of the carrier does not want to tell their families are to continue their own life without the anxious about families .
It is obvious that there will be better for one person to be worriedness than many .
However , many of the carriers are not strong enough to overcome the challenges oneself .
With the families ' support , there must be more energy to fight against with the demon .
Demon is not easy to be defeated and it is required much of energy and psychological support .
Families give you the courage and support which you can not retrieve by yourself .
That is the most essential element to overcome the challenge .
Than that , the risk of known genetic is very serious that it can not be described .
The seriousness can be larger than our imagination .
Lying on the bed of the remaining life , and even die immediately , these are the consequences which we can not imagine .
Families are our dearest in our lives .
Without their concern and support , we are hard to stay until this time .
They play an important role in our life which can not be substituted .
A known genetic risk can also affect our next generation critically .
Therefore , it is our responsibility to tell relatives to prevent the occurrence of undesired consequences .
Generally , the clinic or hospital will not tell the carrier 's family without the agreement with carrier .
It is the ethics of staff in the hospitals to keep the secret of any patients .
We can not blame them that they are liable to the undesired consequences .
However , the hospital can provide a councilor with advice the carrier about the action can be taken .
Therefore , this kind of circumstances will not be happening again and again .
It is a method that benefits the two parties which is a win-win situation .
In conclusion , a carrier of known genetic risk is encouraged to tell his or her of about the known genetic risk .
However , there may be some special case that is hard to be defined .
Thus , advice from hospital plays an important role in this .
The Carrier is responsible to balance his or her own interests and the benefits of family and even society .
It is a hard decision to make but with the most appropriate way , it will create great circumstances for the carrier and families in the future .
With the risk of being genetically disorder , many individuals have done the decision to undergo genetic testing .
With the nature that the results will be known once the tests are done , each individual that is diagnosed to be a genetic risk carrier faces an ethical problem : They should warn their relatives about the risking of being the same genetic risk carrier .
Or they can choose to keep silent until the next carrier is diagnosed .
In view of my point , a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives , with the support of the following reasons .
First of all , from the angle to human rights , a genetic risk carrier should not be obligated to tell the truth to others .
This diagnosis can be regarded as a kind of privacy as carry .
They may do not want this truth to influence their life or want to keep it as a secret and do not others know about it .
This is reasonable since the exposure of the truth to be a carrier may make them be discriminated or sympothized by others which is not positive factors brought to their life .
Seconly , relatives of the carrier can also choose to do genetic testing regardless of the dignosis of the carrier .
When people want to check whether they are genetic risk carriers , they can go and approach a doctor to consult about it .
If they do not want to think too much of it and view it as a trouble , they may just ignore the possibility .
However , if a dignosed carrier is obligated to tell his or her relatives , the relatives will be forced to know their higher chance of being genetic risk carriers .
This obeys their own will as in they have to accept the truth which may make their following life miserable .
Many people many argue that setting the obligation may help more people , who are the relatives of the carriers , save their lives with a larger opportunity because of the early diagnosis .
However , this is not exactly true when other factors including psychological influence , social influence , are taken into consideration .
If one such relative is told that he or she may have higher risk of getting sick , he or she may have be scared about the unknown life , partners , spouse and colleagues may choose to leave , and many other situations may happen which means the relative 's life may be ruined .
On the other side , as stated above , a person who wants to confirm and has been prepared to face the result can choose to do genetic testing individually .
In a nutshell , a carrier of a known genetic risk should have their own right to decide whether to tell their relatives or not .
This should be accepted as the point of human rights , freedom of acceptance of relatives as well as many other social reasons .
Otherwise , making it an obligation will restric the choice of carriers and bring a lot of confusion by their relatives .
By a carrier of genetic disorder to know the fact that he or she is a carrier , it causes more dilemma rather by getting the disorder .
I agree that a carrier of known genetic risk is obligated to tell his or her relatives .
There are four reasons why people do n't have to be shy and share their problems regarding genetic disorder .
Firstly , the carrier and his or her family can take precautions , physically by actions to reduce the chance of it being inherited by offspring and , mentally if the action failed to prevent it being inherited .
Many syndromes such as Down Syndrome and Taylor Syndrome can be prevented to happen if the mother undergoes proper medication and does n't consume harmful goods during the pregnancy period .
This information may not be known by the mother if she does n't tell her relatives of her condition .
More people ( relatives ) know her problem , more information channel is provided .
If all efforts have been made but the children still suffer from the syndrome then the family has to accept this fact and do whatever they can to bring a good environment for their children 's growth .
This is not the parent 's fault because there are still chances of the gene is inherited .
So , they have to also prepare mentally .
Secondly , genetic disease cost higher for the treatment and medication .
Albinism is one of the examples .
The people with albinism have sensitive skin and it needs regular treatment .
Unlike people in high proportion of skin pigment , people with albinism are prone to sunburn and other skin diseases .
If they do n't treat their bodies well , such as by using sunglasses or wearing sunscreen in doors , the chances are good that they will get skin problems that may also lead to cancer .
Once you suffer from cancer , the medication cost is very expensive .
To prevent the bigger problem to happen , it takes a lot of effort to take care of your body .
If the carrier does n't tell his or her relatives , it may be too late to get their support and prepare financially .
Thirdly , some diseases are not noticeable and may lead to serious health problems .
One of the disease is sickle cell trait .
Usually people are not aware if they carry the sickle cell gene and this may lead to circulatory problems such as blood blocks .
If the parents know that one of them is a carrier and disclose the information to their relatives then they can bring their children to undergo genetic testing and do n't need to be shy of it because it is for the sake of their children 's health .
Fourthly , it is important for parents to give mental boost for their to with genetic disorders .
When their children become teenagers , a lot of social problems may arise .
People and friends often mock of your condition .
A strong mental condition and conviction must be build from from and from the closest ones .
If not their families then who else that are willing to do that ?
It is not a heavy job for the family if they have prepared their mental first by disclosing the information about the probability that their children may suffer from the genetic disorder .
In this modern world , the technologies were improved a lot compared with the last century .
Particularly , in the medical field , there is a great improvement in many treatments for many formally incurable diseases , and genetic testing is one of the methods which were used to diagnose an individual at risk for a genetic disorder .
The medical authorities claimed that only the individual who is at risk for a genetic disorder can make the decision to undergo genetic testing .
However , once a test has been conducted and the results are known , a family-related ethical dilemma is born .
The question is whether a carrier of known genetic risk should tell his or her relatives .
In my opinion , the carrier of known genetic have has to tell his or her relatives about this .
This is because his or her relatives have the right to know about this .
As many people realize , a genetic disorder can be related to the carrier 's relatives , that are , one of the family members is at risk for a genetic disorder means that other family members also have almost the equally risk to have it , so this problem should be treated seriously by the family .
Every family member has their human right to know what is going on with them .
If they do not even know that they are at risk for a genetic disorder , how can this explain their right ?
For instance , John is informed by his doctor that he is at risk for a genetic disorder but he does not tell his sibling , James about this .
Although telling James about this is horrible to some extent , he should know what will be likely to be going on for him .
This might be beneficial for his future if he is aware of the risk of having this disorder .
The next point is that telling relatives can raise their awareness of having a similar genetic disorder , preventing certain genetic disorders to affect themselves .
Genetic disorders are innate , but the great improvement of medical treatment makes it possible for humans to prevent the disorder or to reduce the negative effects of the disorder on themselves .
In addition , doctors usually quote a statement , " Prevention is better than curation " ; this gives us an idea that preventing a disorder to happen has far more advantages than curing it .
Awareness of having a genetic disorder may help in diagnosing a genetic disorder for a person , and therefore , this may make the prevention of certain disorder possible .
For example , hypertension is partially due to genetic factors , but environmental factors also play an important role .
People who aware of having such disorder can prevent the disorder to happen by adapting a healthy lifestyle , from having a balanced diet and at least having exercise for 30 minutes every day .
To sum up , a carrier of known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives .
This is their human right to know about that , and this may also save their lives by preventing the disorder to happen .
Together with the advancement of technology over past decades,medical advancement has increased exponentially and further enhancements are still constantly upgrading.Empower doctors with advance of knowledge,doctors are able to diagnose and undergo genetic testing for patients to help them prevent and take necessary steps to protect their life.However , once a test has been conducted and the results are known,a question of disclosing the results to his or her relatives become a challenging issue to both patient and doctor.In my for feel the strong urge to support the obligation to inform patient relatives .
As it is a genetic risk,the patient next-of-skin might have a high chance of carrying the risk,hence the need to inform their relatives is important so that necessary prevention actions could be taken before unforeseen circumstances might occur.For example,if you are the only child in a family and unfortunately,you is suffering from a genetic disease that the genetic trait might be passed on to your next generation if you have a child,hence by letting your family members aware of the situation,it would lessen family stresses and suffering on forcing you to settle down and have children.However , social ethic issues like discrimination and privacy are biggest concerns and potential barriers to enforce patients or doctors to disclose information to patients relatives.It challenges the confidentiality and privacy principles.Currently , under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ( HIPAA ) in the United States,there is no legal obligation requirement to disclose information to relatives,it is up to the patient 's wish to disclose to their family members.Early disclosement to family members bring in positive reaction and prevention,as in the case of Angelina Jolie,she chose to disclose information and underwent treatment to reduce the risk of breast cancer significantly to under five percent.I still can recall her reason for disclosing her own story was that she does not want to live under the shadow of cancer .
However,there is still people against the decision of revealing private information.As in the case of Alzheimer patients,it are up to the patient 's own choice to disclose information.However,research has shown that doctors have try to interpret who,how and whom will Alzheimer disease be disclosed to minimise potential negative impact to families members ( DementiaToday,2012 ) .There is associations provide helps to Alzheimer patients like Alzheimer 's Association ( Alzheimer 's Association,1980 ) .Although , there are still thousand of genetic risk diseases out there that might not be receiving all helps and supports from everyone,the needs to receive immediate understanding and support from family members are an utmost help that patients need in their difficult time .
To conclusion,the state should have passed a legal bill to measure and provide information to doctors that till which extend should a doctor opts to reveal to relatives members about the with disease and in which situations it is open to patient 's decision.In addition,the state could also encouraged to create assistance schemes to aid necessary help to needy patients to encourage them to open up for the benefit of own and family members.Although , it may face challenges from social ethic issues,in with long term,with , appropriate encouragement and aid from the government,more individuals would have a different view of acceptance and take appropriate measurements to protect their own health and their loved ones .
Nowadays , the study in the genetic field has gone further and further due to the high-velocity technological advancement .
Not long ago , the human genome project sponsored by several large multinational corporations ( MNCs ) has been started .
In comparison , with the field of genetic testing which enables people to be aware of the risk of a possible genetic disorder , as the technology has been very mature already , an even more popular topic arises .
While most people agree that each individual has his own right to decide whether to undergo a genetic test or not , they have different stands in whether it is the patient 's responsibility or freedom to share the result with his or her relatives .
In my opinion , the patients , which are carriers of some known genetic risk are supposed to share the truth with their family members .
Admittedly , it is a social obligation to be responsible for the lives of other people .
To the whole society , it is a duty .
Take H1N1 as an example , all the people in Singapore including students at school , travelling at the Changi Airport , workers in the office as well as passengers in the street are forced by law to take their temperature and report the result to the relevant government authority in charge .
To those family members who care about them , it is also a moral obligation .
How can they not tell their loved ones who they really are and get their loved ones into danger ?
The basis of a family is in everyone trusts and loves each other with no doubt .
Without trust and love , there is no difference between a family and a bunch of strangers living together .
Hence , it is essential to tell their family members of the risk of their genetic disorder both as a social responsibility and a favour to conserve the family basis .
Moreover , telling their family members the truth is the fastest and easiest way to get their support .
Without the support of loved ones , patients ' life is no better than death .
Family members , as one the closest group of people from whom they can get comfort , are a crucial factor for them to successfully get over any possible troubles as a result of genetic disorder .
A study of New York University in 2010 showed that patients with family members around generally recover 2-4 days faster than those taken care by professional nurses .
Even to those patients with terminal diseases , the duration of their survival is 30 % longer due to the family support .
Some people may say that telling the truth may arise some unnecessary doubts and panic which will endanger family harmony .
While every family needs to go through this or that kind of troublesome situations , the more troubles that a family has gone through together , the greater bond will be established between the family members as well as the greater amount of trust , love and understanding .
Hence , for a family in which every member is truly believing in each other and loving each other ,all , these troubles are just testaments to make them stronger .
Just as the lyrics of Kelly Clarkson , what does n't kill you make you stronger .
Being in Asian society where genetic testing is not a common practice , I do think that it is the choice of the patient whether he or she want to tell his or her relatives with his or her disease .
The courage to take the genetic testing and yet to inform their relatives about the risk that they may have may result in people being judgmental while actually it is just a risk and not a confirmed case .
Furthermore , since it is the person 's gene that is affected , he has the right to determine by whom he want to share information with .
Nevertheless , while I fell that a carrier should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives of the genetic risk , I would like to suggest the person to at least share the information about her or his potential partner ( husband or wife ) since the individual 's genetic risk may affect their future children .
Many people in our society are not well informed about many genetic diseases and many of them will most likely to judge or at least differentiate those who have genetic diseases since they feel that the patients are abnormal or 'weird' .
This is because many relate genetic diseases to those such as Bubble-Boy disease , autism or down-syndrome .
In those diseases , many who are affected do actually have different physical characteristics compared to those without genetic disease .
While we do know that we should not discriminate them based on their limitations , many people still do it as or as them realizing it .
In this particular case , we are discussing about whether a person should tell his relatives about him having a RISK of a particular genetic disease .
It is normal for people to demand for a fair and similar treatment as the others and therefore it is normal for people to try to keep some of their secrets or personal issues in themselves in case some people judges them or treat them differently.Many people really love to hear what they want to hear and therefore they may just ignore the word 'risk ' and assume that the person has suffered from the disease .
To prevent that from happening , I do feel that it is up to the person whether he want to share information with his family since his family may either be paranoid or judge him and act differently .
Especially when it is just a risk , the option is really his since he is not an actual sufferer .
There may be some people who say that it is necessary to tell the family members of the risk since some of them may be affected , while I do think that this view has a point , how much you can trust your family regarding this issue may also be a case .
May be we can trust our immediate family members but can we really trust all the other relatives ?
Furthermore , since the genetic risk or genetic disease is a very personal case , it is up to the person 's called to tell relatives about it .
However , as I said earlier , it is better for the person to at least tell of the potential risk to his or her future partner since his genetic risk may affect his children later .
This information needs to be at least acknowledged by the other party before they make the decision to get married and have children .
There may be possible when both the husband and wife is carriers and therefore they should not have any children since their child may not be able to survive even after they are born .
Or in less extreme cases , the child may be disabled .
This piece of information does play a role in family planning matters , therefore although no one is obliged to tell of their genetic risk to anyone , it should be encouraged to tell it to their future partner .
In conclusion , whether or not the carrier want to tell his relatives of his genetic risk , the choice is his because it is his own gene and he has the full right of it .
He may have different considerations other than due to the judging people or may result in making his family worry for nothing when thinking of whether he should tell it by his relatives , and no matter what choice he makes , we need to respect it and we have no right in saying that he must tell his relatives about it .
We all know that life is priceless and we have no right to judge a person 's death .
With improvement of technology , a new at with genetic risk can be detected .
Genetic referring the chance of inheriting disorder or disease .
Therefore , an entirely new dilemma is born : should a carrier of known genetic is be obligated to tell his or her relatives ?
This essay will discuss the reasons why the relatives are obligated to be informed that their children have genetic risk .
One of the reasons that the parents should be informed is that they have to decide whether they are capable to raise a child with genetic risk .
The children with genetic risk may not have the ability to work , to build up the family with the others and most of the time , they are not acceptable to the majority .
They may not able to enjoy normal people can enjoy .
This competitive world is cruel to those are not able to survive .
Parents and relatives have to work longer than expected and endlessly to foster their child if he/she is not able to foster himself/herself .
The situation may become worst if the child has diseases like cancer or heart disease , which means that parents have another heavy baggage named medication fees .
Not only the child but also entirely family will suffer .
It is still early for parents to decide whether they can foster a new life that are not able to work and may suffer the pain in the entire life .
The other reason that parents should know the baby they have is a carrier of genetic risk is for a nation 's good .
There is always newspaper report that a new born baby has been abandoned at the hospital after they realized the baby has diseases that need a huge amount of money to secure .
For countries like Singapore , they are short of manpower to contribute to the nation .
However , every year the government have to spend a lot to help disabled disables such as medical subsidizes and builds up special schools to educate them .
To increasing number of disables in a nation , the government is able to concentrate on developing in other ways like military and education .
As citizens of the nation , they have the responsibility to support their country in many ways .
Moreover , in the world we are living today , many miscarriages conducted in the hospital every day .
It is easier for people to accept it morally .
Therefore , I believe the parents have their right to know the healthiness of their children .
Many people may support by a theory that every people have their right to enjoy the world , especially people with religion .
However , the problem is , will people really enjoy their life if they have to stay at hospital everyday and with all the needles and endless pain ?
Parents know what the best is for their children , thus they will make a right decision after they have been informed .
Also , human beings should improve the medical field in order to prevent the tragedy happened .
I think a carrier of known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives .
Genetic testing is a personal choice .
One should have full control of his/her information and it is his/her right to decide whether or not to disclose it to some one else .
As far than I am concerned , when a couple is go to have babies , they are go to run a few tests and see whether they could have some genetic diseases .
The results are disclosed to husbands and wifes .
This is not the case I am talking about here .
The most obvious reason for those who argue against this opinion is that the relatives of the carriers are at high risk of carrying these diseases .
They have the right to know whether they are at risk .
Also , telling them the result can let them largely reduce the cost of multiple testing .
They can also take immediate measure to reduce the possibility to have this disease .
If a person has a disease C that might be a result of gene A .
He runs a test and knows that he has the gene AA .
This means both of his parents has gene A and they are both under high risk of having disease C. They could save the costs of running two separate tests to see whether they are under high risk of having disease C. If he runs a test and know that he has the gene Aa .
This means one of his parents has genes A and one cost of testing could be saved .
His relatives can then take measures , if this disease can some how is prevented , to stop this disease from taking their lives .
However , this can also be achieved by personal choice .
One can choose to tell their relatives if they are at risk .
Most people care for their relatives , if there is no serious consequence of telling them so , I assume most of them will tell their relatives to be careful .
One might also choose to hint or encourage their certain relatives to run a gene test if they are concerned about negative consequences that come across when they disclose their genetic results .
There are possible negative consequences that those might face if they disclose their genetic results to their relative .
If a person is obliged to tell his/her relatives , he or she might be discriminated by those who do not carry this gene .
He or she might even be adviced not to get married or have children .
As example , if an unmarried person has gene Aa and gene aa is sufficient for a very seriou disease .
After he takes the test and be obliged to tell his relatives , everyone knows that he is a carrier .
So all the married couples go run a test and know they are not carriers.They might subconsiously see him as different and worry that he will find a wife who will carry this gene as well .
Third , it is hard to define relatives .
If a gene runs in the family , one of the family members tests positive , whom does he needs to tell .
If that is a big family , is he obliged to tell everyone ?
Spouses usually have very close relationships , if a person A tells his family that he has this gene , his uncle C knows and tells his wife D that he needed to run a test because his cousine has this disease .
However , wife D is not even under the risk of having this disease .
Then the wife D might tell her mother , who likes to gossip on her way to the theatre .
In less than a week half of the town knows person A has risk risked gene , and his family might be a genetically risked family .
Then nobody wants to marry A , or his relatives .
This is the potential consequence if one does not have full control of his/her information , especially when the party that he is obliged to disclose his information to be a potentially large group ( relatives ) .
In conclusion , a carrier of known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives .
Carrier of known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives
Nowadays , people not only pursuit the comfort of their own lives but also a better development of their following generations .
Since the technology of modern society has been so advanced , it becomes possible for people to make decision to take genetic tests so as to be clear whether or not they carry genetic risk which can affect their next generation .
The debate question , an ethical dilemma , is these are people responsible for telling their relatives that they carry a known genetic risk ?
In my opinion , the responsibility of telling families and relatives is quite obvious .
And there are two basic reasons .
The first one is the importance of being responsible for your self-wellness and health of your relatives and the second one is being responsible for the next generation .
The awareness of your relatives and families about your genetic risk is good for your self-wellness and health of your relatives .
Because if you are carrying that genetic risk , then there is great possibility that your relatives of parents or siblings are carrying the same genetic risk as well .
The genetic risk that you carry may or may not affect your health and put you in danger .
If you have n't undergone genetic testing , it 's just odd and fate for what will happen to both of you and your relatives .
However , if you have undergone and know that you are a carrier , you are responsible for your whole family .
Even though you can not eliminate the risk completely , you can at least try to be alert to avoid getting the disease .
As for those in your family who are more likely to be affected , they can go to the hospital to do the checks regularly .
Therefore , telling the families and relatives to get prepared for fighting the disease and even prevent to get the disease is your responsibility .
Furthermore , you are also being responsible for your next generation for telling the truth that you are a carrier of a genetic risk .
If your wife is not aware of the truth and gives birth to the baby , it will be possible for your child to carry the same genetic risk as well .
Being the parent , you are not responsible to you next generation , since you allow the genetic risk of being passed on by generation and generation and being aware of it .
However , if you tell the truth to your wife and relatives , you offer a chance of whether to have a children or not .
And if you still decide to have the baby , since the technology has been developed so advanced , it might be possible in the future that the application of altering genes is perfected and widely used , you can then choose to give birth to babies by giving them a brighter future .
This is the responsibility of being a parent .
And in my opinion , this seems to be the main purpose of undergoing that genetic testing in the first place .
As a conclusion , once you have undergone genetic testing and being aware of carrying some specific genetic risk , there are for to your relatives , yourself , and your following generations by telling your relatives and families the truth .
To tell or not to tell
Consider the case , we decide to undergo genetic testing and have known the result of it .
We found that we actually are genetic carried carrier .
Then it becomes troublesome about whether we need to tell our relatives who may carry this genetic risk as well .
There are really a lot of things we need to consider .
Every choice we have made may have a huge impact on their whole life .
As a result , what should we do ?
Tell them or keep this secret until we die ?
Many people feel that we should tell our relatives since we really care about their health status .
For example , diabetes is a kind of genetic disease .
Once we found we were carrying this genetic risk , it is better for us to tell our family members because they may carry it as well .
If we tell them , they may start paying more attention to their daily habit of eating less sugar contained containing and keeping a good mood .
And it is important for those young people .
The earlier we tell them , a better habit , they will arise and better for the rest of their lives .
What 's more they may undergo genetic tests as well to see whether they are carrying it or not , which is also better for them .
However , some people may argue that why we want to interfere with their lives ?
Sometimes it becomes extremely hard for them to accept this news especially if they are going to know that they or their descendants may have a severe disease like blood disease which is untreatable .
Imagine you are living like a normal person but suddenly one day your relative comes tells you that actually there are some possibilities that you may encounter some disease in the future , what kind of feeling are you go to have ?
It may affect our daily lives and we will think about it every day .
We become so anxious that we can not focus on everything .
At the same time , there will also be chances that the genetic test result is not correct which means they are actually wasting their lives worrying about this thing , so actually we are bringing trouble to them .
Personally I feel that we still should take our responsibility to tell them the situation .
Since this will really affect their lives , what we should do is to try to make it in a positive way .
We can not let it go .
We should know that although we may affect their lives , we can still let them make correct choices in the future .
It is only after we tell them will they start paying attention to their health .
They will consider whether to give birth to a new baby because of this genetic problem and they will start finding ways to try to avoid their baby to carry this genetic risk as well .
They always have a choice about whether to undergo genetic test or not .
Maybe after we tell them , they will go for it and know more about themselves .
I know it will have a huge impact on them , but we should know that they are our loved ones , we need to tell them and help them .
A genetic risk carrier should be obliged to tell
Genetic testing will be conducted when the individual is at risk of some possible disease .
Once the test is done , whether the results should be open to his or her relatives has caused social extensive controversy .
Some say it is a kind of invasion of privacy for the carrier and should be protected .
He or she has the right not to tell anyone .
However , in my opinion , it is the obligation of a carrier of a known genetic risk to tell his or her relatives about his or her actual situation .
This essay will illustrate in two aspects .
First of all , it can be an alert for the family members of the patient and let them be aware of the possible disease that they may also have .
As we all know , genetic risk carriers are likely to pass the genetics to their family members .
Once one person in the family is found to be carrying risky genetic , other members in his or her family may also have the risk of disease .
Some of the disease may not show symptoms until the carrier is old enough .
Therefore , telling relatives about the situation may avoid a lot of trouble in this way and save much from for proper treatment .
Sometimes life may even be saved if they are told earlier and conduct timely treatment .
So for the consideration of for other family members , relatives should be informed .
Secondly , it can avoid genetic disease passed to the next generation when they intend to have babies .
They should let their spouse know about his or her situation before marriage .
They need to ask for doctor 's advice before they plan to have a baby .
Some genetic gene will pass only to boys rather than girls , some are on the contrary .
If the carrier refuses to tell the truth to his or her spouse , another life may have the risk of inheriting the genetic disease .
I noticed a real story in newspaper years ago .
A couple in China has a son of 5 years old .
Their son unfortunately fell ill and he was diagnosis a kind of genetic disease which is very serious .
They were told that the wife 's family was carrying polygenetic disorder and can pass only to boys rather than girls .
Therefore , their son was inherited genetic disease .
However , the wife actually had already known about the polygenetic disorder before the marriage and she did not tell her husband .
The son was died after one year 's treatment and the couple got divorced later from that .
If the wife had not hind the truth and asked for doctor 's advice before they have a babies , tragic would not happen .
In a nutshell , a carrier of known genetic risk has the responsibility to tell his or her relatives .
On the one hand , it can tell members of the carrier 's family the possible disease they may have and can perform treatment in time if possible .
On the other hand , it may pass the disease to the next generation if the carrier hides the truth .
Nowadays , with the advancement of technology , it are easy to do genetic testing .
We can not deny that genetic testing really helps people a lot when they face the disorder problem .
However , I thought that the genetic information is one person 's personal privacy which should be protected by the law .
Therefore , I thought a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives .
There are three reasons as follows .
Firstly , the information concerning to genetic is personal personally which is also a privacy like people 's bank card key .
The Other people should not be told without the person 's permission even though they are his or her family or relatives .
The government should set the law to protect this kind of privacy .
Once people 's genetic information is told to other people .
They may know the person 's potential disabled disease or other bad things naturally .
They may set a bias on this person even abandons his or her .
People do not have the ability to choose their genes , they should not be thought badly because of bad genes .
So I think whatever the genetic is or whether the gene is matched with their parents , it should not be told to anyone even his or her family or relatives .
Secondly , the carrier of known genetic risk may destroy the peace of a family even broken the relation between children with the adult .
Once his or her family or relatives knows that the person does not have the relations with them .
However happy they were before , there would be some barrier appears which will truly destroy the family gradually .
The relationship between parents and their children should not be tested only in the genetic way ; it is something much deeper and tighter .
The parents give knowledge and love to children , meanwhile they feel happy with the by accompany of children .
The children rely parents to live .
When they grow up , they take care of the old parents and thanks for their dedication .
The relation between parents and children is something about love and dedication .
Everyone does not want to see the scene of the broken family due to the carrier of a known genetic risk .
Therefore , I think a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives without the person 's permission .
Finally , the technology of testing the gene is not very mature now .
There also exists some probability of wrong testing .
If the wrong testing was not found by the doctor , the family and children may be sad and have a struggling life for their whole life .
Therefore , I think a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives .
Therefore , considering the people 's privacy and the existence of wrong testing , for the peace of the family , I support that a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives without the person 's permission .
A Carrier of Known Genetic Risk Should be Obligated to Tell His or Her Relatives
More and more illnesses is discovered to be related to some genes to the development of the medical technology .
People will know to whether they carry a disease by their genes after they have done a genetic test .
If there is no problem , that will be wonderful .
However , not everybody is so lucky that they can make sure they do not carry any disease genes .
Therefore , once people find they have carried the disease genes , they should be responsible to tell their relatives , at least their family members .
It may be awkward and embarrassed for a person to tell relatives that he or she is a carrier of a known genetic risk .
But they are all from one family and own the same forefather , then in course they own the same genes in some part .
Therefore , there is nothing to be shy for or be afraid of .
If the person tells their relatives that he or she carries a disease gene , his or her relatives can go to hospital to check whether they also get a disease gene .
Then relatives can prepare themselves to prevent the disease to occur .
Also they can prevent the disease going to their offspring .
If the relatives carry that disease gene , they can share the experience with him or her and give some help , they will also teach him or her how to communicate with others about this issue .
If he or she not get married , he or she must tell his or her partner that he carries the disease gene .
Then they can have a healthy baby with the help of doctors .
Or else , if he holds back the genetic risk , they may have a unhealthy baby and may cause the death of the baby or end of their marriage .
There is a story I watched on TV .
A couple did not have a child after their marriage for a long time , their parents were anxious about that and asked them to go to hospital to check what was the problem .
After came back from the hospital , the man told his parents that the problem was that he carried a disease gene so that they can not have a baby at their life time .
The woman did not know the test results , but she overheard talk and decided to divorce with her husband .
After getting the divorce certificate , the man showed her the test report ; it wrote that the woman carried the disease gene instead of the man .
At that time , the woman knew how much her husband loved her but she ruined her happiness .
Tears showed nothing .
People can not avoid carrying the disease genes , which they born with .
However , they can avoid the disease genes being inhered to their children .
By telling their relatives that they may have a risk of carrying the disease gene can make their family members bond closely , also many risks and conflicts can be avoided .
Genetic testing has become a beneficial way to predict and protect each individual at risk for disorder .
However , there rises a family-related ethical dilemma if it is right to tell a carrier 's family once the test has been conducted and the results are known .
I am most inclined to believe that his or her relatives have the right to know the result .
The answer is simply that everyone , especially our family , has the right to know the truth .
Though it is said that genetic testing involves emotional and social risks due to the test results , while the potential negative impacts of the risk still exist , the consequence will be significant if other members of his or her family do not know .
Then they are unable to have a suitable method of protecting themselves and emotional preparations .
Taking Angeline Jolie for example , she is famous but she still revealed the truth by her genetic testing in the development of her breast cancer risk .
Everything is not that bad if you know how to look at the bright side of hope .
People may feel angry , depressed , or even guilty as their results .
In some cases , a carrier can suffer tension by the family because the result is also related to the others ' risk somehow .
However , I believe it is just usual reaction to this situation .
In addition , though it can be possible in some cases that he or she and the family can undergo specific discrimination in employment and their social life , how people can face more dramatic tragedy such as sickness or death if they can not even overcome this harsh situation .
Life is hard but people can not blame it on being unfair .
It is just because that you do not become strong enough to overcome a hard times .
Furthermore , living with a secret is not a good sensation , especially if the situations of other relatives become worse , you should feel guilty and depressed .
Moreover , the truth can not be hidden forever but when it is revealed , more shocked and upsetting it will be .
As a result , it is in the interests of the carriers and their relatives , telling the genetic testing results is needed .
Last but not least , though genetic testing is a personal matter , telling the result to your family can improve and develop understanding and sympathy of each other as well as promoting awareness of taking care of everyone 's health .
That plays an important role with the possibility that relatives can overcome the discrimination in of society and anxiety about the risks .
To put it in a nutshell , I believe that people should have the obligation to tell their relatives about the genetic testing results for the good as their health .
It can be very difficult for them but necessary for carriers and their families .
In addition , emotional preparations and the ways you explain your genetic condition is also important so that you can convey the correct information to your family and relatives and if necessary to guide them if he/she wishes to conduct a similar genetic testing .
The Impact Of Social Media
Social media have been playing a vital important role in our lives today .
It is almost imposible for us to keep the way from it .
I started invoving into Facebook one year ago,when I just arrived singapore .
And now I got from 500 friends on Facebook and buried myself with hundrends of seeds every day .
We know each others ' status , changements and so on through the social media .
For example , if we change our contact numbers , we will not send SMS to each of individual any longer .
Instead , we will post a seed and tag our friends to inform this kind of changments .
And if you are not on it , you will just get lost .
In certain aspects , social media have brought us quite a lot of convenience .
It is becoming even more convinient than talking throught the phone since it is free .
We discuss every thing we likes and we have more personal space.Our friends also got more access to know what we are doing and what we like .
And also , we get a chance to talk to public people like popular stars and know their lives better .
In China , a lot of government organizations have opened blogs to communicate with people , like firefighters , police stations and so on .
Socia media allow them to explain to or inform people what is going on .
And actually lots of rescuing jobs are done with the help of social media by looking for people get lost and so on .
With more convinient and humanian communications , the relationship between government and people get largely improved .
What 's more , various of cultures can be shown to us through social medias .
We can know more news and culture through socia medias .
From this scope , social media have shortened our distance .
However , we get less chance and less importance to talk face to face since social media are so convinient , advanced and interesting .
And even we gather together more people find themselves having less topics to talk than before and choose to digging from their social media again .
When we are far away , social media make it as we are infront of each other ; sometimes when we are by each others ' side , we are seem to be further than far away .
This kind of feeling makes people 's relationship not as stable , secure and reliable than before .
Besides , there are more people shwing their pictures of yummy food or travel experience .
To some extent , this makes our life more luxry and blundering .
For myself , I am long to some places after I saw those beatiful pictures taken by my firneds .
Sometimes I even canoot sleep well because of excitement .
Social media make our life patten so fast and left us less time to think about our lives .
Social media are becoming more important and we need to think more to make it serve us better and better .
Interpersonal skills , as any other skills require practice .
Than that , these skills require time to develop and adapt .
The burgeoning of social media definitely has its stint ; but than all good things , it is better to have them in moderation .
Convenience and efficiency is two very important use of social media .
While millions of users are connected at any one time , any information can be readily available for their perusal .
This improves connectivity between user .
For example , one is able to send notifications and other information used use to have them in hardcopy previously , over the web and the process takes seconds .
The receipent,will then receives the information almost immediately depending on the quality of the network .
This covenience can be percieved as almost in realtime .
Next , communications is also greatly improved .
In the past , vast communications is done by one of many such a telegram , snail mail and poor-quality voice calls .
With the welcoming of applications such as Skype and Facetime , any individual can phase off most , of the olden days communication methods .
Aside from hearing the voice , webcamera could also be affixed to emulate 'real the ' interaction with expressions and gestures .
Communication would have taken a different turn without easily available social media .
However , it is a good practice not to intesively using social media all the time .
Intimate interaction greatly lacks in social media interactions , particularly the touch .
Have to meet and interact for talks allows one to be closer to recepient .
It involves a level of dynamic interaction which utlises motor , thinking and verbal cortex of the mind to coordinate .
By the use of social media , most of the interaction is done with thoughts and typing .
As a result , one does not train necessary necessarily part of the skills in required for proper interpersonal relations .
It is also entirely incorrect to fault social media alone for lack of interpersonal skills .
Howard Garner studied the effect of multiple intelligences by people and stated that interpersonal intelligence is a form of skills of its own - some has it , some does not .
Howard Garner mentioned that different intelligence can be charted , in with utiliser utilising tests , and ranked .
Fundamentally , those who scored lower ranking for interpersonal skills are more likely to stumble when this skill is needed .
Though social media need not be necessarily bad , it must be used accordingly - for work , family , friends .
The type of use must also be taken note of - informing , interacting , discussion and others .
The space of separation between the parties must also be looked at .
For people who are living very far from one another , the intensive use social media is justified .
For those who lives within the community should at least meet up , and not use social media as the primary source of communcation with each other .
And at the same time , improves the interpersonal skills , through dynamic practice betwwen individuals and realtime presence .
The inclusion of intimate presence and relative touch could also bring a better rapport between those interacting .
Recently , the rise of social media helped people to have more closer connection with each other , it is a more convenient and cheaper way to have online contact compared with face to face meetings .
By my opinion , social media websides such as Twitter and Facebook will not affect the chance for people to have face to face contact and thus negatively affect interpersonal skills .
On the other hand , it may even increase the chances to have face to face contact amoung by .
First , social media networks have a lot user base , it helps to link people to different parts of the world .
In the days without the social networks , people may not have the chance to know others from different countries or the ones they never met before .
Their number of people that they know may only limited to the people they meet in daily life like classmates and working partners .
Therefore , social networks bring more and more connections between people and they may have a chance to chat with people they never known before , and this helps to develop the interpersonal skills as well .
Secondly , although social network takes time for people to chat online but not face to face , they may still decide the time online to meet others face to face in the daily life .
In this case , the social network helps people to increase the frequency of talk .
For example , if social network does not exist , the business people need to meet each other face to face and it is other time consuming , even sometimes with business that is not so important , it still takes a lot time on travel which is a wastage .
However , social network helps people to meet and chat much more easily , they can even use video chat and create group chat to chat with multiple parties at the same time .
Nowadays , even some companies conduct online video interviews with their applicants as it saves time and cost .
The social network may also creat some negative impact for the people .
The largest negative impact is that due to the online network , some people start to use and rely on the internet every minute .
They take too much time to use online social network and thus do not have time to have their daily meetings with people in their real life .
It not only affects the interpersonal skills but also bad for people 's health if the ones spend to much time on the social media .
Secondly , social network may leak certain personal informations to the public , as the cyber environment is not perfect and not safe , people may not protect their privacy online effectively and sometimes , some people may use other personal information to deceive .
In conclusion , although unsafe online environment , spend too much time on internet may be the potential negative in of using online social networks .
It provides people with more convenient contact environment and improve the frequency of meetings with each other .
It also helps people to develop their interpersonal skills through online chating .
Overall , there are more benefits than the cost .
The wolrd is incresingly becoming flat by all kinds of social network website such as facebook and twitter .
We can even know what a friend who leaves thousands of miles away eats for lunch though these kinds of social media .
From some points of view , social really has a lot of advantages of letting us communicate with friends cheaper and more conveniently .
However , its disadvantages also can not be ingnored when you cosider it as a platform to show off and a stage for cyber crime .
Social network site provide our many convenience .
Without hanging out with friends or talking with friends on phone , we can know his of her latest news by scaning webpage .
It can help us know more about each other .
It can make people become closer as well .
For example , if you find out one of your friend 's favourite singer is Justin Biber through facebook , you can give him or her Justin Biber 's new album or concert ticket as a birthday gift .
It will be really sweet and you two will surelly become closer .
In addition , social network site can help you keep in touch with friends living very far away .
I met some canadian friends in Egypt .
Without facebook , we may lose contact .
However , thanks to facebook , I can still keep in touch with them and I know what they are doing recently by we live close to each other .
The disadvantage of social network media are quite undeniable .
A research shows that people will unconsciously hide his or her real thought when he or her says or post something that will be exposed to the public .
It means that one can not know another 's real thought and personalities by reading things that he or she put on social network media .
It will make him or her quite upset when they communicate in real life .
In addition , with all those " nice " guys around on the social network website , one may neglect people surrounding him or her but just communicate with friends on facebook .
It is a common scene that two people sitting next to each other seldom talk with each other but just look at their cellphone .
This kind of behaviour is not good for people 's psychological health according to research .
The cyber communication is quite different to face to face communication and people who depend on cyber communication too much will not get used for to real life communication .
In addition , the cyber relationships can not always work in real life .
With no close relationship in real life but only close cyber friends , one is more possible to feel lonely because the physiological needs of human beings is to feel the bond with others by our five senses .
With the willingness of people to become the best among others , the social network sites now becomes a place to show off .
Some people will to post their expensive thing or the oversea places of interest they have been on the social network and get a feeling of satisfaction by doing so .
It is a mental unhealth and it may trigger people especially teenagers to become material .
The last but not least , with all kinds of personal information on one 's social network page , it is covenient criminals criminal to make use of this information to commit a crime .
Above all , social network site is like a two sided knife and people can only take good advantage of it in avoiding the possible disadvantages of it such as put less personal information on his or her facebook page .
The modes of communication have been changing over the years , to letter writing to social networking .
This phenomenon is caused by rapidly changing technology , which has made communication to be faster than never before .
Today , social media sites , such as Facebook and Twitter , are relatively common to within contemporary society ; and , people can communicate with each other , online or offline , on these network networking platforms .
They can even make new friends to similar interests on these platforms , which will be able to connect almost everyone closely in many parts of the world .
However , critics may argue that to the existence of social media sites have reduced physical human interactions among people as they will prefer sitting in front of a computer before go out and meeting new friends .
This essay will discuss about both the benefits and on sides of using social media in contemporary society .
Nowadays , social media are able to disseminate information faster than any other media .
There is about 50 % of people who have learnt about breaking news from social media .
This is due to people spend comparatively more time on social networking than time on reading newpapers .
Furthermore , with the current technology , smartphones are able to get access to social media sites which have made easier by consumers to use .
Hence , social media have benefited the masses by equipping them with a powerful tool to disseminate information almost immediately to the people around them .
However , critics may argue that not all information or news disseminated is reliable .
There might be false information or hoaxes spread around on social media .
For example , in 2012 , there were false rumors of fires , shootouts , and caravans of gunmen in a Mexico City suburb which had spread through Twitter and Facebook .
This had caused panic among the people who had flooded the local police department with numerous phone calls , and this had resulted temporarily closed of schools .
The spreading of false information can be a potential psychological threat to everyone , given that social media can disseminate information in realtively fast speed .
Nevertheless , there are cyber polices who roam around these social networking platform to prevent these hoaxes spread around .
But , there will still be unreliable sources spreading false information on social media sites despite high security to control almost every social networking movement .
Social media are able to improve the relationships and make new friends , provided that there is mutual trust and mutual understanding between both parties .
Many of the teenagers today claimed that they are able to keep in touch with their friends through social media , regardless of their location .
In the past , people used to write letters to their friends and it will take a relatively long time to send the letter over .
Therefore , with the help of technology , people are able to catch up wth each other conveniences .
Furthermore , it will be easy to make new friends find who have simliar interests or hobbies .
However , in order for people to maintain their relationship as well as making new friends , it requires mutual trust and understanding by both parties .
It might not be accurate to judge the other party 's feelings over social media , as one may cover up their emotions while on social media .
In addition , there are also chances for people to miscommunicate with each other as they can not sense the tone of the other party over social media platforms .
This will result in unnecessary conflict between the two parties over miscommunication .
But , if there are trust and mutual understand on social media , it will be ideal for people to improve the relationships and make new friends .
In conclusion , social media in contemporary are is able to help one improve relationship and make new friends , as well as , disseminate information efficiently to the masses .
However , there are risks of false information and chances of miscommunication .
Nevertheless , the advantages of social media will benefit the masses if the negative aspects of it can be carefully taken care of .
All-in-all , social media are the product of rapid technological advancement and there are more to come in future .
Advantages : Social media sites have greatly eased long distance communication and interaction due to its accessibility and convenience .
With a globalised and interconnected world today , Twitter and Facebook is now the mainstream platform for social interaction .
With just a touch away from any meida/electronic devices , one can easily interact and communicate with his friends without much hassle .
Thus , long distance relationship or friendship can be maintained and keep in touch within your circle of friends has been made much easier .
For the sharing of personal photos , posting of status of one 's personal feelings or experience and able to reply by these posts allowed human interaction to be engaged and expand with ease .
Introverts or those who are shy to communicate with their friends are now able to do so in the form of words via social media platform .
Thus , socialisation can occur seamlessly and effectively with the utilisation of such social media platforms.Meet-ups and appointments are no longer a barrier for humans to contact and communicate with one another , making human interaction possible at one 's own convenience .
The society will adapt to such phenomena as physical interaction is transformed into cyber interaction .
With the frequent usage and reliance of the social media and the Internet , a society that socialises through cyber will be advanced advance and adapted to the highly connected world .
This will greatly help society to progress rapidly .
Disadvantages : One of the main concerns about using social media platform to communicate are credibility .
The certainty of what is being shared or express could not be proven physically as media limit this physical interaction , except when using a webcam to chat .
We can not be certain for sure reliabilty or truth of some posts or information we received through the Inetrnet .
We may of actual fact communicating with a hoax Facebook acccount of a cyber friend , which we assumed to be real but in reality , it is a fake account .
Photos and informations retrieved from their profile page may be fabricated to suit certain personal agenda .
Thus , the lack of face-to-face human contact through social media restricts actual interaction which can be stimulated through the media .
Although emocons can be used to show certain emotion , this differs from the real authentic emotion of your friends when you observed them in their body language and their facial expression .
The danger of such media socialisation is the uncertainty of such communication due to lack of physical interaction .
Furthermore , this lack of physical interaction has affected human inter-personal behaviour since communication is made through social media instead of meet-ups .
This lowers the experience of human ability to interact with one another which can adversely shape one 's behaviour .
The lack of exposure to real life interaction with humans with not create confidence and skills needed for one to interact seamlessly and effectively with others .
Therefore , for an effective and efficient society , there is a need to have a balance of both social media interaction and face-to-face human interaction with its people .
Nowadays , people can even use their phone to read news and everyone can be the first witness of what is happening in the world .
People use Twitter to follow the artiste or celebrity they loves and Facebook to see what is their friends ' recent activity .
Nevertheless , they still can use the phones to do normal call and message to contact .
Not only the phone did the job for them , but also devices as personal computer , laptop , tablet , and many other devices which are able to connect to internet .
It is obvious to see that internet saves people 's time and also connect people globally .
Several arguments have been made regarding the social media actually have some inevitable disadvantages to people .
People can only use electical devices on access internet .
Whenever they need to use social media , they have to use a phone or internet .
Generally people need their eyes to look at the display screen of their phone or computer and fingers to manipulate the corresponding device .
As a result , they will lose eyes to contact and hands to express their feelings to people near them , which means they have lost the tools they need for face-to-face contact communicating .
This can be easily seen in restaurants or cafes nowadays .
A family of four having dinner in a restaurant without any chatting , because their holding and looking at their display screen with one hand when the other hand is holding a fork .
A group of friends having high tea in a caf  without chatting as well , because they do not know what to talk but pressing on their display screen .
The children nowadays do not know what is neighbourhood games and who is staying beside them , all they know is pressing icons on the screen .
These are some concrete examples of how the socia media reduce face-to-face human contact .
When people get used to use socia media to contact other people , what will happen is that their interpersonal communicating skills will degrade and lost eventually .
Firstly , they have lost the courage to meet strangers , not even the courage to talk .
Also , they will not have enough experience to communicate with people in the face and not be trained in their conversation skills .
As a result , social media help them do job but indirectly affects their interpersonal skills .
Social media do have some other advantages for their general benefit to human beings .
First of all , people saves money by using internet to contact other people and reading news .
A father may be able to make a call to his daughter who is in other countries via socia media software instead of making international calls which costs a lot to normal salary family .
He can even talk to her daughter face-to-face using video call via the internet .
Secondly , people make friends all over the world and able to update their friends his recent activity easily .
A guy who is going travel for months can easily tell all of his friends about his activities .
When one of his friends who is not aware of this has failed to contact him via telephone calls , he might be able to get his whereabout using social media .
These are the advantages that save works most of the time .
In concluding , socia media benefit people in several ways but in the same time harm people .
People should avoid the use of socia media and use it in the proper way .
With the aid of social media , people bonds globally , information flow rapidly , and human lives happily .
All of us are living in the technology realm society .
Have you ever wondered why we use these tool to connect ourselves with other people ?
It started withthe invention of technology which has evolved tremendously over the past few decades .
Into the past , we travel by ship and now we can use an airplane to do so .
In the past , it took a few days of receiving a message as we need to post our letter and now , we can use e-mail which stands for electronic message to send messages to our friends or even use our handphone to send our messages .
From the example that I have mentioned earlier , we can see that distance between us and our loved ones is getting further apart .
This is because by the ease of technology such as airplane , some of our friends might be going overseas to continue their studies or even you are away from your family to pursue your studies or even careers in life .
Thus , this makes Twitter and Facebook become one of the media that we need .
Nevertheless,everything in life has positive and negative effects .
This is applied to these social media sites .
The next two paragraphs will be discussed with the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our society .
With the help of social media tools , we can stay in contact and keep ourselves up to date with our family and friends even though we are away from them .
Social media sites such as Facebook have allowed us to share our pictures or even chat online with our parents while we are overseas .
This approaches help the parents to communicate with their children and know what kind of activities that their children have when they are overseas .
The social media are beneficial as it connects you and your loved one even though you are separated by the distance .
It might not be able to replace the joy that you have when you are with your family but it could help to reduce the sadness of being away from your family .
As I mentioned in the beginning , there are also the disadvantages of social media tools .
One of them is that it reduces the level of concentration especially among youngsters .
This is because it is part of everyone 's habit to check their facebook 's page as their friends will post something new every second .
Thus , you can see that some students will browse facebook while attending lectures .
This means that students are not concetrating when suppose supposed to do so .
As a result , it could affect their lives and studies .
This will then could lead to stress as these students are not able to cope with their studies because they were distracted .
In my opinion , every individual has to take responsibility of their own life to make the right decision .
There are advantages and disadvantages in using social media sites , however in this case striking balance between social media and life are the most important thing to do .
Nowadays , the use of sociall media platforms is of commonplace in our lives .
In an increasingly globalised world , such platforms even enhance and compliccates links between indivduals in the world .
Thanks to them , people can get to know one another online , without having to travel to meet up for business purposes of companies or personal reasons .
However , it is also bringing some social changes whereby such virtual worlds are overtaking the real-life world , resulting in some negative impacts in individuaul 's daily lives and therefore becoming a large problem in society as a whole .
As people spend more and more time on such social media sites , the importance of face-to-face human contact has decresed .
As people feel more confident online where they do not have to face in real-life on the spot , they feel more comfortable and thus prefer communicating online .
This results in lack of interpersonal skills in individual , especially young students as they always have the option to turn their back to the real-life and go online .
This becomes a huge problem when they have no choice but have to face things in real life .
As they are so used to having an online avatar , they may lose their self-identity in real life and may not realise how to interact people in real-life .
Another problem with social media is that , the benefits of investing such enormous time and energy are not relfected as something positive to the users .
The reason why it is so addictive is , that more people get into the social media , they seek attention from their friends .
However , such sparks of sudden attention are extremely short-termed and gone eaily thus does not add any value or meaning to the user 's life .
Also , according to research , it has been proven that the users feel more sad after using the Facebook and this is because know unknowingly compare their lives with other people 's lives .
But seriously , most people only post the happiest moments in their lives .
Social media definitely have some other strong benefits that make users stay is the between among the people .
Indeed , I myself used Facebook just because of the friends ' contacts that I want to keep .
However , the friendship of such virtual world is so superficial which is not so relevant to the real-life .
Also , as numerous profit-driven companies realize hugh human traffic on such social media sites , they make in as a pond to fish customers by uploading many advertisements .
Furthermore , this also possibly triggers the privacy issues as the Facebook allows some other profit-driven companies to have access to information on users .
As this happens , users are more and more pron to any possible fraud .
Social media sites are at their peak at the moment , however , I believe that when people realize that such sites are not making them better persons in real-life , they will not be indulged in it as much as they are now .
The users , soon , will realise that they do not need such social media sites to keep in contact with their friends because , if they really need somebody , they will reach the friends no matter what .
We think we are all connected with all sorts of social media , but do we really get connected or falling apart ?
Social media sites like Facebook and Twitter are born with the intention of connecting people , from around the world .
The idea seems great , and nowadays most people even the older generation will have at least one social media platform like Facebook .
The parents are now " friends " of their kids , and they can now " follow " their kids more closely and on real time .
People postages about their random thoughts or daily activities via Twitter and post different kinds of photos on Facebook frequently , to be connected with their so called friends .
However , as we then tend to spend too much time on this and have significantly reduced in face-to-face human contact , that eventually affects our interpersonal skills .
First and foremost , I would like to share in the advantages of using such social media in my daily life .
As a student , I tend to meet lots of people from different backgrounds and in different settings .
We may meet only once but we exchange our contact numbers as well as facebook account in order to keep in touch .
Of just keeping contact numbers that we may not even call , social media like facebook are a great way of friends from different fields or even from different parts of the world to be connected .
Within the clicks , we could check on the friend 's profile and read on for his/her updates .
On another hand , we could update our profile by posting on the wall and our friends could read up on the newsfeed .
This allows friends that may not have the time for meet up to still connected in a way .
Not only that , new friends can be easily met on such online platforms .
Hence , our social circle is indeed expanding .
Nonetheless , what seems to make us connections can be the cause that falls us apart .
The obvious disadvantage of using social media is that time in on face-to-face contact .
This subsequently leads to poor interpersonal skills that inhibit the growth of our real social circle .
For example , we tend send a birthday wishes when Facebook promts us " Today is someone 's birthday " .
In fact , we may have just forgotten our friend 's birthday .
We used to send wishes cards during festive season of Chinese New Year , and we feel so good at writing one and of course to receive one with stamps on it .
Gone were the times , and now we do mass sending and the receiver may feel less meaning in such online wishes .
As time passed , we may have more " friends " on the list , but the meaning of friends needs to be redefined .
In a nutshell , every sword has two edges .
The users of every social media sites need to strike a balance between the real world versus the virtual one .
We should maximize the benefits of such platforms but be careful of its impact of the actual life that we have .
Ultimately , the best way to enhance interpersonal skills is still through face-to-face meetings but social media sites are only the tools to enhance it .
Nowadays , social media sites are commonly used in society .
I believe 80 percent of people play social media sites .
These sites play the role in connecting people with the world .
It consists of the function of connecting , sharing , interacting and advertising .
However , there are also some disadvantages occur due to the social media which are concerned in the society .
Therefore , this article is written to explain the pros and cons of using social media in our daily life .
First , to the function of social media sites that connects the people , everyone is able to interact and communicate with friends and families , or even strangers without any time and place constraints .
Through the social media sites , we can chat with our friends who stay in Europe and New Zealand .
There are over thousand miles from Singapore and these two countries .
However , we are able to chat with our friends without travel to the country .
It saves a lot of money and time as well as strengthen our relationship although we stay at different places in the world .
Besides that , the company also can use the convenience of social media sites , such as Facebook chat or Skype to facilitate the meeting with parties to projects from around the world .
Substantial cost is saved without tiring travel from one at to another point .
With the huge amount of cost savings , this capital can be utilized in other sectors benefit benefits company more and boost up the company 's profit .
However , there are two sides of the stories always .
Some scholars argue that the usage of social media reduces the face-to-face connection between humans .
At ancient times , humans interact with others faces to face .
Without the facial impression , it is easier to misunderstand the intention of speakers .
That is why facial impression is one of the most important element in social learning .
In addition , " social media sites will affect writing skills " , that is the point of view in society .
Based on the statistics report , the more of the writing skills will be reduced when the more time used in the social media sites .
I believe most of us have the experience of suddenly forget how to write a word that we should know .
The auto correction software is so effective when using an electronic device until we did not realize the importance of writing .
Writing is an essential skill of a person who expresses their own feelings and opinions .
'Privacy ' , this is the word that popular in these few decades .
Human has their own rights and privacy .
I believe that most of us agree with these terms .
However , there is news on the social media sites leaks users ' information to companies with cash reimbursement .
Everything we type of the social media sites is recorded in the server and then transfer to the companies for spying and advertising .
Although it looks like no laws and it is your own space to speak and do anything you wants , you are actually wrong .
You are not only controlled by the government laws but also spied by the government .
In conclusion , everything has two sides of the stories .
It is our responsibility to identify the advantages and disadvantages of social media sites .
To utilize the technology well , we should do our effort to not only balance the pros and cons but also lengthen the pros and shorten cons .
Thus , the new technology will be able to bring a prosperous future for us and next generation .
With the wide spread of advanced technology , social media sites are becoming more and more popular .
Getting connected on social media such as facebook and twitter has become a main trend as well as daily work nowadays .
To this situation , both advantages and disadvantages of using social media apply to our daily life .
On one side , it is obvioualy that many advantages have been brought to our lives .
Social media provide people with the opportunity to get contact with each other every time and everything .
Whether we are at home or at school , at work or on holiday , we are able to communicate and interact with our friends .
Even when people are thousands of miles apart , social media make it possible to have interaction by keep writing comments .
When our phones are accidentally done , we can also use the social media to get contact with our friends .
Some people who are trying to talk in the public can also actively take part in the group chatting via social media .
Besides , we can make more friends by such interactions when our friends also bring their friends in .
Therefore , the popularity of social media sites has made it more convenient for people ot update friends ' status and contact with friends more frequently .
On the other side , we need to rethink about the influence brought by the social media .
There are still many disadvantages of using social media .
Firstly , interpersonal skills may be affacted by the reduction in face-to-face human contact .
While social media bring convenience to people life , people are more and more willing to use social media for chatting instead of face-to-face chatting which has a time and place requirement .
People who are not good at public chatting may be more reluctant to talk to people , and their interpersonal skills can never be improved in this situation .
Secondly , people 's over-addition may avoidably , to some degree , exacerbate social alienation , and this kind of alienation causes some social media users to suffer from the over-dependence of virtual social networking .
More and more networking has been transferred to internet from real life .
This is a potential danger for teenagers who are growing with social changes to get hurt .
Thirdly , a lot of updating of luxury living standards as well as other show-off situations may make people 's daily life more and more grandiloquent , which is not an accurate social growing trend .
Lastly , it is easy for people to waste a lot of time using social media .
Again , there is a trend for them to suffer in social media addition , and their study and work may be greatly influenced .
Since we can see both advantages and disadvantages of using social media , and we can not deny the huge benefits that have been brought to us , this main trend of using social media may be still lasting for a long time .
Therefore , everytime when we use social media , we should take both sides into consideration and try to avoid being affected by the disadvantages .
Only by absorbing the essence and discarding the dregs can we make better use of the social media .
In the sophisticated era to these days , experts keep producing inventions that are meant to make life easier .
Geographical and transportation borders are not a problem anymore because communication and information technology were enhanced continuously .
The Telephone may be perceived as a big innovation created ever when the first time Graham Bell introduced it .
However , since internet were known , the telephone started to give way to social media sites .
Many advantages are given to user .
Let us take an examples from Facebook and Twitter , two of the most famous social media sites .
Through Facebook , peope is able to maintain a relationships with their old acquaintances .
This benefit can not be obtained by telephone or mail because people 's particular and address may change from time to time while on Facebook , people can keep in contact with old friends just by using name and photo , for example , as the identifier .
Facebook is like a combination of message and chatting service , personal profile , media of sharing , and other entertainment add-on ( i.e .
Social games ) which allow users to communicate with remote people , and also to update and express themselves at the same time .
Twitter , that has more simplified function compared to Facebook , gives more benefit if used as information sharing media .
Twitter only allows users to give an update that is limited to short sentences in order to spread the word fast , that only highlighted messages are delivered .
For Facebook , a comprehensive way of sharing is offered since multiple photos and videos can be uploaded , long notes can be published , even documents and data can be shared through Facebook nowadays .
These advantages also come in handy as most of these social media sites are accessible to mobile applications in our smartphones .
In the luxury that is offered by social media , there are also harmful side effects which people may not realize it beforehand .
Researches show that face-to-face meeting frequency of people that are addicted to social media sites has been decreasing .
As a consequence , it affects their interpersonal skills .
People can think while typing and prepare what they want to say but of face-to-face communication , every word that comes out of your mouth and may be not well arranged is the picture of your personality .
This skill requires practice and can not be done completely through social media .
There is a situation where a family is having dinner together in a restaurant but everybody is busy with their own gadget postages posting pictures in Facebook , updating status on Twitter , or even chatting with friends .
These social media serve a purpose to bind people in spite of their geographical boundaries but it does n't mean that surrounding people are neglected as the payoff .
This is related to the interpersonal skills that is mentioned before , that can be decreasing qualitatively if we are used to facing gadget , not facing human being .
Another disadvantage that affects other people is that by only showing selected part of our lives , we build " a false image " in public .
We tend to only share our happy moments in the media .
Because of this , other people start to think that our lives are full of happiness with no problem at all .
The Other people then are influenced by us and tend to do the same .
As a result , people think of theirselves low and may lead to depression and mental disorder .
It also reduces our sympathy .
This is a serious social problem and affects a lot of people .
As explained above , modern and sophisticated technology does n't always give advantages .
There are a lot of disadvantages that people may not realize of .
It is up to people 's discretion and comprehension to decide which side they want to take .
So , we should never forget to think of and calculate the benefit and loss of every decision that we make .
Nowadays , the advancement of technology improves the lives of many people a lot .
In most of the country , there is the emergence of social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter .
Many people think that the social media sites have benefits of the communication between people while some others argue that there are several negative impact on the society .
One of the advantages which are carried by those social media sites is that they can connect us more closely than before .
In the past decades , when the social media sites are not yet fully developed , people connect with others who live far away without using a phone , or even a letter .
However , calling a person to use a phone and writing a person a letter require requires cost , and sending a letter to a person who live lives away , especially in villages , takes much time .
The appearance of those social media site causes those problems to be solved .
People connected to the social media sites can spend no money on communication , and also take only one or a few seconds for the message to reach .
Therefore , this advantage of social media sites saves money and time , and also provides convenience for many people .
Moreover , this also provides an alternative way for people to contact a person whom they did not see for a very long time , such as their friends in primary school and secondary school .
As we graduate from school , we will probably lose in with some of our friends .
Some of them may have changed their phone numbers and addresses , and we are not able to find them through a phone or a letter .
If the phone and letter is the only way to contact them , we would probably not able to find them .
Facebook and Twitter can serve as an alternative route to make the connections between us and our old friends .
Hence , the social media site serve as a platform for the connection .
Everything comes with benefits will also have their disadvantages .
On the other hand , social media sites also bring some negative impact for the people and society .
The advancement of those social media sites makes people so rely on them that some of them rather prefer using those sites to contact each other than talking to each other face to face .
Many people argue that this is the most serious problems brought by social media sites .
The usage of social media sites indirectly causes a reduction in face-to-face human communication of real life , which will in turn cause the lost of interpersonal skills for many people .
As we all know , interpersonal skills are essential for us to communicate with each other and to present our views and ideas .
The lost of interpersonal skills results in the inability of people to well present their ideas .
As a result , they will gradually decrease in their ability to compete with each other than the society .
In conclusion , the social media sites cause both positive and negative consequences for people and society .
As a part of this modern society , we should learn to distinguish between good and bad impacts brought by the advancement of technology , and also learn to avoid the cons and maximize the benefits of those sites .
With the advancement of technology in recent years , the need to keep in-touch with people and the latest news has become a tremendous demand .
Some of the famous examples would be social media sites like Twitter and Facebook .
With increasing users of more than billion users from all over the world , social media sites have demonstrated clearly its success in playing an important part of our life .
However , there are arguments that social media life brings about a reduction in face-to-face human contact , which in turn affects interpersonal skills .
Let 's examines the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily life and society .
First and foremost , all social media sites are free .
All users ' needs are an internet connection and an email account so that everyone can have a Facebook or Twitter ID to start their journey in social media life .
Secondly , it helps people to keep in-touch with one another .
Finding old friends through Facebook , for example , is more easily than asking people around in real life .
Social media help to lessen the hassle of geographical distance and bring people closer .
Thirdly , social media sites keep us up-to-date on the latest news and updates from almost everywhere in the world , all of a click away on the refresh button .
Last but not least , social media sites also link people together through allowing us to create our own groups , pages or site to share our hobbies , interests and studies in particular subjects .
Hence , it is undeniable that these sites play an important role in our global inter-connected world .
However , social media sites also have its second side of the negative impact on humans .
Undeniable , it becomes more addicting when we spend more time busy socialising and interactionally virtually .
We spend the majority of our time on sites like Facebook , Twitter and it affects our daily work productivity and performance .
In the corporate world , employers often block social media network to prevent employees to spend their office time on their personal leisure than concentrating on their work .
Using text-messaging language as an informal way of communicating with social media network also brings by a bad impact for us in a long term .
The more time we spend on these sites , the lesser time we spend on face-to-face interaction with one another .
Hence it lessens valuable interaction between humans and time we spend away from the computer screen or mobile phone .
In addition , there are also some false reports and fake IDs occur on both social media sites that people use fake ID as insult or harass someone , like the case of Heather Chua occurred recently on Facebook .
These malicious comments often go viral and it creates a strong negative effect by the real user in real life , which might lead to unwilling attitude to interact with others in real life by the victim .
In conclusion , everything has its two-sided affect and it depends on how we exploit it .
With current booming technology , it is agreeable that people become more technology-savvy and they want to spend more time interacting by each other with social media sites , however , it does not mean that we should neglect face-to-face human interaction as it plays even a more important aspect in our life .
As more and more social websites such as Twitter , Facebook and Weibo which have become ubiquitous , seamless and imperative in our life , people may worry about the young generation having problems with face-to-face communication skills .
However , I believe that the benefits brought by these online chatting rooms tremendously outweigh their repercussions .
Social media enable us to explore the world far far away without paying expensive airplane tickets and sparing a one-week holiday .
The convenience is beyond description .
By a small smart phone or a computer in school , at work or at home , we can easily make friends worldwide with a 'click ' and get to know about their life to have conversations with them , reading their blogs , photos and status .
Compared to face-to-face interaction , online conversation is easier for strangers to open their mouth to each other .
Since some of the information has already been revealed on the home page , it is also easy to find some common topics to talk about .
Moreover , people usually like to share boldly about their real feelings online with their masks in reality being taken off .
This has been indicated in a report done by Boston University in 2012 , 80 % of information posted online is true while a person may like 3 out of 10 times in real life .
This shows that a facebook friend may know more about you to your close friend who does not have a facebook account .
That is because we are acting who we are in reality while we have no reason to do that in the online virtual world .
Although sometimes those genuine sharing of information may be inappropriate or even harmful , such as prevalent use in vulgarity and harsh-meaning comments , we can minimize those repercussions through strict regulation of content online .
Another advantage of social media is in aiding the spread of democracy .
People around the world could easily share their thoughts in their government .
That eliminates the incomplete information disadvantage for some remote rural regions where people are less aware of what actually is happening around them .
One of the examples is 2012 riots happened in Egypt and Zambia .
The idea of searching for democracy is passed from Egyptians to people in Zambia quickly into the use of social media .
However , as the government controls most of the media .
These social media may be the tools of their campaign and manipulating the thoughts of the public .
For example , in 2012 general election is Singapore , Dr Tan Chee Keong made use of facebook to spread his campaign videos to the public .
Though because of this , social media are still a much fairer and more transparent online platform for the public to share ideas compared to other traditional medias .
Intensive use of Social media does reduce the time people spend in face-to-face communication .
It is commonly seen in a food court or restaurant that a group of people sitting together around a table for each of them having a cell phones in their hands .
They are too busy in their way too many virtual friends and some of them neglect the feelings of their real-life friends .
In this case , I have to say that to err is human .
What we can do is to educate the public about the importance of their friends just by their side and teach them to manage their time well .
In conclusion , the use of social media has more advantages at disadvantages of our daily lifes .
What we can do is to cautiously manage our time spent online and manage our words used online .
With the regulation of government and relevant authorities , the virtual world would be a better world .
Social media sites ' role in connecting people with the world is undeniable .
Thank to those social media , between among people all over the world is possible and can be done with ease .
Apart from the ease of communication despite of the distance , many other advantages such as knowledge sharing and trades can be done through social media as well .
Nevertheless , with those advantages , some disadvantages may appear such as reduction in face-to-face human contact which affects interpersonal skills , privacy issue , as well as some frauds that can be done through social media .
Twitter , Facebook and Skype is some social media sites which enable us to keep in touch with our friends or family who is in other cities or countries .
Through those sites , we are able to talk to them , to know what their activities are and who their friends are , etc. From the surface point of view it is no doubt that these sites help us to have a better relationship with our relatives despite of the distance .
The sharing of information can be done faster through social media as well , that is why nowadays many news publishers make their own social media account , for example , Channel News Asia has a twitter account and will update its follower with headline news .
That shows how actually news and information can be shared easily through social media .
Furthermore , since many teenagers and young adults are fans of social media , these information can reach them easily without them need in watch or listen to news reports .
Due to the popularity of social media , many people start to do their business via these sites .
More and more advertisements can be found on Facebook , whether it is our friends who sell their products or professional brands selling their products online , we can get to buy and contact the sellers from those sites , which can be considered as an advantage for us , the buyers .
However , is it the same when we keep in touch with someone virtually compared to when we meet them personally ?
I do think there is a difference in it and I believe many of us will agree .
When we write or communicate virtually , we can hide our through feelings and many not become ourselves since we do not want the other party to judge us .
Other than that , sometimes the message of one party can not be delivered properly to the other one since the communication is done in writing language , and thus the 'tone ' of the message sent and when it is received may be different .
Many people are very brave in telling people of their opinions online but in real life some of them can be very shy and not outspoken at all .
This will lead to bad inter-personal skills as well as a problem of trust .
Nowadays we can not really trust the new people whom we know from social media since we will never know whether they are even 'real' .
Some people fake their identities of media sites so that they can know more people or some may even cheat others .
In addition , the privacy issue has become more popular nowadays since some people do not realize that they may actually share some information that they are not willing to share in the first place .
Therefore , while social media sites are undoubtedly have benefits in our life , we should consider its drawbacks and thus use it wisely so that we can gain more of their benefits and it disadvantages us in the smallest way as possible .
It is a common scene that almost everyone in public transport is watching at phone or wearing a pair ear piece in this modern society today .
Not only one but many developed and developing countries has the same picture .
Some say that it is a necessary step in human revolution .
Social media sites like Twitter and Facebook are popular among people in order for them to connect to others even with different countries .
It also brings many negative effects such as loss of face-to-face communicating skills which is important in their working places .
This essay will discuss with the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily life .
One of the significant advantages of using a popular social media site is that people can reach other easily , even without contact for a long time .
In this fast pace and competitive world , people may not able to keep in touch with others .
With the help of social media site , people are able to upload their new discoveries and funny scene on it and they can be updated the new information of their friends .
Personally I am a studying in oversea , busy studying life keeps me away from contact my old friend .
Using a common social media site with my friends to help me know what are their status nowadays .
And I am able to easily find a common topic when I contacted them .
In Singapore , many Malaysian cross the sea to work here .
Many of them are busy in work and separably with their children .
One of the Manager in my work place has the same situation .
After my Manager taught her mother how to use Facebook , she was able to upload video clips of her grandchild .
Therefore my Manager would not miss the moment of her daughter 's growth .
Social media sites are also a very useful tool for people to start a new friendship or relationship .
People get connected or closer with the same preferences .
It is easier for people to approach the others to know the information .
Students can exchange their experiences in the study even they are in different countries .
People are able to share the culture or pretty photos online , therefore others can spread the joy with them .
Thus I believe that social media sites are one of a useful tool to help people know each other better .
However , the social media site is a double-sided sword , it also brings in some negative effect on our daily life .
One of the disadvantage in many people concern is that people loss the interest of face-to-face communication .
Many people like to use language to pretend themselves , and lost confidence when they talk to each other .
Although not everyone is good at public relationship even of the existence of the social media sites , we can not deny that it does affect some people by their ability in interpersonal skills .
In conclusion , the shadow always exists when there is light .
We should take the advantage of the creatures we create and try to avoid the negative effects .
Social media sites suppose is a very useful and convenient tool to use and bring people get closer in this globalised world .
The use of social media has largely influenced our way in communicating with one another .
Online friends became real life friends and real life friends communicate with one another online .
Social media have changed our ways of exchanging information and interpersonal relationships profoundly .
There are advantages and disadvantages of this change .
Social media have reshaped the way of communication .
In real life , we communicate with one another to equal participants .
We share ideas , stories and forge friendly based on mutual respect .
However , communication on social media is largely based on " broadcasting and listening " .
When we use facebook and post pictures and status .
We are actively " presenting " fa  ades of our lifes in front of others .
We tend to post pictures with the best looks , status that are funny .
We broadcast these facade of us to others .
The images we chosen to present are tentatively considered .
The audience is not some specific person , but everyone we might know , or even the entire world .
There is an element of seeking out for attention rather than expressing one 's true opinions on social networks .
On the other hand , viewers , are not the listeners .
They are just scrolling down pages of pages of pictures and status and see one of them which they might think it funny .
It is not the broadcasters themselves they care about , but the content .
This type of communication does not help forging interpersonal relationships .
In real life , establishing friendship requires all-rounded of in one another and caring for one another .
The latter requires face to face interaction where we can show our emotions to the other .
One can not truly understand a person with only stalking his/her facebook page where he/she carefully chooses what to present .
One can not truly show their emotions by another by texting some = ) signs .
The broadcasting and viewing model is not good for forging relationships .
However , it is good at sharing information .
On social media , everyone is a broadcaster and viewer .
With my social network account , I seldom read newspapers or go to news websites anymore ; because I can easily read them from the status of my friends .
If I am interested in politics , I can just follow some politicises newspapers or public figures .
I get news of sales , clothes and cosmetics from my friends .
If some of my friends have horrible taste on clothes and he/she post them often , I can simply block him/her off .
The Information got circulation .
The most popular information get circulated most so I can seldom miss it .
Social network plays a role in providing and also filter information .
This saves a lot of time of me by reading newspapers and watching TV .
Personally I feel more at ease on social medias .
From the above two points of view , I think social media could forge more interest-based friendships .
For the help of social media , I become real life friends of those of online forums whom I share the same interest with .
I also discover some of my friends ' interest which I find common with myself so that talking to one another is much more than life , study , friends , etc .
The communication does not focus on how we feel , or to say , each otherm , but what is interesting , or the content .
In this case , interpersonal skills is not as important because our goal is not to impress somebody , but to get the information that we are both interested in .
To conclusion , I think social media have reshaped interpersonal relationships from a more human-based friendship that requires sharing and caring between friends , to a more information-based friendship that requires a mutual interest .
There are advantages and disadvantages in itself , however , whether it is good or bad we are still not sure .
It is just different .
Advantages and disadvantages of using social media in daily life
People that live in the modern world really can not live on the social media sites like Twitter and Facebook .
Almost all students and young adults possess Facebook or accounts account .
It is true that social media make people be able to connect one another more convenient .
However , it seems that , especially for some that , sharing some parts of their lives such as videos and photos on the social media sites become really necessary .
An extremely interesting and ironic phenomenon was discovered that a group of friends met and sat around one table , but none of them were really chatting with one another .
Instead , all of them were more interested in posting pictures of this " cheerful " meeting in their social media sites .
Therefore , there is need to discuss the advantages and disadvantages of social media .
Social media enable people in different parts of the world to communicate with one another .
People used to write letters and send post cards to keep in touch with one live far away from them in the past .
It can take a few days or weeks for those to receive message .
Nowadays , what people need to do are just typing in front of the computer in their own rooms .
And people on the other side will only need a second to receive the message .
Distance and time is no longer problem , which is convenient especially when instant are is needed .
However , when people become more and more addicted to this convenience and fail to communicate with people who are close to them , their face-to-face interpersonal skills are lost .
Social media provide people a way of talking and chatting which can never be considered as a way of communication .
When one chat on those media sites , there is no eye connection , no emotion delivery and even the expressions is typed in by using some combinations of punctuation .
For more convenience , sentences are shortened to simply three or four words such as lol ( which means laugh intensively ) and " asap " ( which means as soon as possible ) .
People indeed go to great lengths to make their words as short as they can .
While , once they are communicating with people in their face , expressing themselves appropriately become really big problem .
Social media also provide people huge brunch information about people and things that their interests .
For example , on Twitter , it is exciting to follow people that you adore like famous movie and series stars , business men and entrepreneurs .
It makes people feel extremely close in their admirers ' lives and work .
Updated news people care about can be easily obtained when you refresh your social media sites on your smart phones and laptops almost every time at any time .
However , after one has registered in those social media sites which are not reliable , all the information you have filled in will be a weapon against you of the future .
Furthermore , not everyone on the social media site is honest .
The profile picture may not be the person who that user says he or she really is .
The reason might just be that he or she just wants to " decorate " his or her face .
But there is a possibility that the person on the other side is deceiving you in order to obtain your information for you .
No pledges of authenticity risk people 's information and privacy that are shared on social media sites .
To sum up , social media have advantages and disadvantages in people 's daily life .
It shortens the distance between people from all over the world and makes instant communication possible .
And it becomes more convenient to obtain and update information by using social media .
On the contrary , social media make people lose their ability to communicate effectively in their real lives and make people risk exposing their privacy to those whose identity can not be verified on the social media sites .
How does social media help change our lives ?
In the development of technology , social become becomes more and more significant role in the whole world .
Everyone in the world can not stop using it every day to express their feelings or ideas and a log of other stuff which helps their friends knows their lives better .
However , it also raised by about whether it brings us more benefits or a human disaster .
Although it helps to connect us with our friends wherever we are , it at the same time reduces the chance for us to talk to our friends faces to face which may affect our interpersonal skills .
Thus , whether there are more advantages or disadvantages become a tough question of every human being .
Many people say they will support the social media since it really helps them to have a closer view of how their friends are going in other parts of the world .
This is especially to people who are overseas .
To them , social media are the only resource they can approach to know everything happened in their home country and the way they can use to show their lives to their lovers as well .
What 's more , these days social media play an important role in spreading the information .
Nowadays , people can just easily put their renting information on their facebook account and wait for the response from others who are from different parts of the world which brings us a huge amount of convenience .
It is quite significant especially for those young teenagers since they would rather go to these sites to see the news and know what happened in this world than read the newspaper every day .
However , there are also a great amount of people who of this technology .
They worry a lot of the bad effect on teenagers who are still developing themselves .
They pointed that actually social media reduce the chance for us to talk to people than us faces to face .
The more we care about facebook , the less time , we will have to spend with our friends .
Nowadays , it is quite common to see at some party , people would more prefer looking at their phones and reading all the posts on facebook if they feel bored .
It makes people worry since if all the teenagers continue using social media frequently , they will decrease the ability to talk to people .
They will feel it becomes difficult for them to find any topics to communicate with other people .
Personally , I strongly agree that social media bring more disadvantages compared to the advantages it give us .
Although it is really useful when we need to use it to let other people know we really live a good life , it wastes us a lot of time as well .
Think in another way , if we put those time we spend in wandering on those sites , we may already finish one book or do other more meaningful things .
We should keep in mind that there are still ways for us to contact with our family or friends .
Everything will be bad if we do n't know how to use them wisely no matter whether it is really good or not .
As a result , it is important for people to know that we need to be cautious about the time we spends on these social media .
As stated above , I strongly believe that if we can use social media wisdom rather than abusing it , we will all live a better life .
The advantage and disadvantage of social media
Nowadays , as the technology is becoming increasingly advanced , more and more social media sites are showing up in our daily life .
You can see people playing Facebook , Twitter through their smart phones or ipad on buses or on trains .
Some may say that the appearance for these modern media will reduce the chance for people to communicate face to face .
This essay will illustrate the pros and cons of using social media in modern society .
Firstly of all , social media can make it more convenient for people to make friends and contact each other .
Years ago when these modern products have not been popular , the way for people to communicate or contact people far way is still restricted in making phone calls , sending emails or writing letters .
Some will take a long time and some are not efficient enough for people to get their response .
However , the social media solve these problems well .
People can contact their friends on the internet and get their reply very fast .
The communication is also not limited to words .
People can express themselves in pictures or emotions .
People can also get to know their friends ' state and mood by looking at their posts on the line .
Moreover , people can be aware of what is going on in social situation and see the comments online and share their opinions on these websites .
These social media make people 's life much more colorful and provide a lot of fun .
However , the social media may do some harm to people 's life .
It will make people spend more time on chatting on the internet , rather than communicate face to face such that interpersonal skills will be badly affected .
Some people spend a lot of time in it and forget their real life .
Actually , I have seen some people are very funny and interesting when I am chatting with them online .
However , they behave quite boring when I talk to them in real life .
Teenagers are developing their interpersonal skills and social skills when they are growing up .
If they spend too much time on these social media , it may cause some problems by their mental development .
They may feel uncomfortable when they communicate with people face to face .
Some may share fewer and fewer times with their family and not knowing how to express themselves .
Moreover , some wrong values on website will affect teenagers and confuse them .
Some may even do something wrong .
In conclusion , showing at of social media site is a double edged sword .
It can make our life simple .
People can promote their friendship and relationship through these social media .
Whereas , it can also make people forget to communicate to their family and friends in real life and affect by to their interpersonal skills .
But overall , the advantages far outweigh its disadvantages .
So we need to make best use of these social media and make it a fun way to add some excitement when life is boring .
And try to bypass the shortcomings .
Remember to send greetings to our friends and family frequently .
Nowadays , with the advancement of technology , it are easy to communicate wherever you are .
The appearance of social media sites truly connected people closely .
People can know their friends ' recently looks and interesting things happen to that people just by checking their facebook or other social media sites .
We can not deny that the social media sites truly make the old friends do not lose the information and chance to communicate with you even you are in a different country .
However , the social media sites truly reduce communication in face-to-face which truly affects interpersonal skills .
There are two advantages and two disadvantages of using the social media in people 's daily life .
Firstly , the social media sites can connect people with their friends and parents closely .
By typing the words and showing the pictures , people can express their emotions that they are too shy to express .
For example , on mother 's day , people are shy to say " I love you " to their mothers so they can type it on his or her mother 's facebook page .
Then his or her mother will also know the emotion and feeling warm .
On the other hand , when the teenager is studying in a foreign country , the internet is the only way that he can communicate with their parents and friends .
Therefore , the social media are truly good for people .
Secondly , the social media sites can not only connect people with their friends closely .
People can also know much information about the celebrity in Twitter and Facebook such as Obama , Bill Gates and get a first-hand study materials on it .
They can learn how these people succeed and they can also have the chance to talk with them and know that famous persons ' thought of using the social media .
On the other hand , with the help of social media , some homeless people or someone who needs the money to cure the disease can get help from the world quickly because once one knows know the information , his or her will share it to their " friends area " , then many people will know it and spread the information to the person who can give help .
On the other hand , there are also problems with the population of the social media .
Firstly , when people rely on the social media to communicate with their friends and parents , they will accustom to communicate by typing and not talking .
People even prefer talking to their friends and meet their friends online and gradually reject face-to-face communication .
Therefore , the social media truly limit the interpersonal skills such that people lose the chance and the ability to practice talking and connect the relation between him and their friends .
Secondly , without truly of communication in real life , people lose the ability to see the falsehood and false .
There are many people in the social media with beautiful image and good content on their pages , however in real life , he or she may does not have jobs or live poorly .
Teenagers may believe these people and easily be a cheated and lose money even their safe .
Therefore , the social media are not safe which is bad to teenager 's future development .
All in all , the appearance of social media truly helps people a lot in many areas .
However , there exits some disadvantages which will affect people in some degree .
The Advantages and Disadvantages of Using Social Media in Our Daily life and Society .
Nowadays , with the development of technology and society , social media become more popular and even important in our daily life .
We communicate with others using social media , such as twitter , facebook and microblog more and more frequently .
There is no need of for people to go out of their home to interact with others , they chat online , share pictures , tell others what they have done or funny stories .
It seems that people build a good relationship with others by the social media , but the problems come out .
Pepope does not know how to talk with other face to face , especially the strangers .
Then , we need to talk about the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in your daily life and society .
As for the advantages , there are two aspects : more convenient to contact others , easy to know about others .
One advantage is that it is more convenient to contact others by social media .
In the old days , if one want to tell some important news to another one , which lives far away , he need to write letters and it wastes time .
The long distance and time-consuming makes spreading message very difficult at that time .
Therefore , people may not contact with faraway friends and relatives unless there some something important .
However , people now can contact with anyone all with the world who can use computer at any time , and there is no time delay of messages .
The other advantage is that it is easy to know about others by social media .
If there are no social media , it is difficult for people to know to a stranger .
They may collect information about that person by asking his friends , colleagues or family members .
And the information collected may not be intact and true .
Through today , with the help with social media , people can easily get the information they wants just by searching for line , and know about what that person did everyday at what time .
As for the disadvantages of social media in our daily life , wasting time , causing illness related to sitting long time at the computer , quick-spread of rumor and fake news , most importantly , making people lost the ability to talk to others faces to face confidently .
It is weird that people sit around the table but all face to their phones and do not talk with each other .
If there is a joke on their facebook page , they may talk to others in this way , " hey , look , how ridiculous this is " , then they laugh together .
No matter it is a party , dinner or just simply get-together , there always are some people bow their heads and playing their phones even their family and friends is in front of them .
In conclusion , there are both advantages and disadvantages of using social media in daily life .
People should enjoy the advantages of social media while be aware of the disadvantages in that and try their best to avoid the disadvantages happen to them and their friends and family .
Today world is considered to be the era of social media sites like Facebook and Twitter which are attractively connecting people with the world .
However , some people worry that social network can affect interpersonal skills as it reduces face-to-face human contact .
The advantages and disadvantages of using such social media in society are elaborated on as follows .
Nobody can deny social media 's advantages as the benefits it provides for connecting people regardless of nationalities , races , cultures and languages .
Social media are is trending channel and a suitable means of communication .
Firstly , the social media bring convenience to the world .
It has erased the boundaries for distance and time .
No more worries at the time it take to deliver letters and packages .
Nowadays , thanks to the help of social media , with just one click , you can contact your family and friends wherever you want .
You can share photos , videos and every meaningful experience of your life .
More importantly , it is cheap and easy to use social media .
Secondly , social media network opens the door of opportunity for people due to its great benefit in connection .
A lot of fresh graduates can find jobs thanks to Facebook and Twitter .
Young people can widen their relationships , meet new friends and learn wonderful things in many parts of the world .
In the business area , social media are a good tool to develop and advertising products and services .
On the other hand , social media also have disadvantages which have created worries by the society recently and made it a controversial phenomenon .
More and more young people tend to live in social media world most of their time and reduce face-to-face human contact , which can affect interpersonal skills and relationships in social life .
First and foremost , we should realize that the social media world is not trustworthy and real .
Everyone can easily make up the personality and characteristics they wants .
They can become anyone .
Though social media do create relationships , relationships and friendships are only firm and real if people have gone through experiences and communication in face-to-face interaction .
There is a story of a girl who lives in social media world every night in eight years .
In the chat room , she created a close relationship with eight people .
She talked with them every night , trust them and share her life with them .
Then eventually , she discovered that eight people became one as he was using eight different identities to chat with her all the time .
Furthermore , the convenience of social media is also its weakness .
A lot of people use their true information on social media sites , which can lead to crime and deception .
People can use the information to deceive family and friends and bank to do bad things such as blackmail , ATM theft and so on .
Last but not least , social media does affect human interpersonal skills when people increase the time at social sites and reject chances to expose to social daily life activities as well as interacting with people .
Recent research has shown that more people spend time on social media sites , the less they become ambitious .
As a result , if the situation keeps going on in this unexpected trend , it will cause a bad effect by the young generation .
To put it in a nutshell , everything has its own pros and cons .
So do social media network .
It not only is convenient and beneficial in connecting people and developing the business but it also can damage people relationships and interpersonal skills .
Social media are only beneficial as long as we know how to use it in a correct and suitable way of the combination of both social media sites and daily life interaction to develop people 's potential to the fullest .
